'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH cal 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
cal \- 显示日历
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBcal\fR [ [\fImonth\fR] \fIyear\fR]
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBcal\fR 实用程序可以将公历写入标准输出。如果指定了 \fIyear\fR 操作数，则写入该年份的日历。如果未指定操作数，则写入当前月份的日历。
.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImonth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
指定要显示的月份，表示为从 \fB1\fR（一月）到 \fB12\fR（十二月）的十进制整数。缺省值为当前月份。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIyear\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
指定显示日历的年份，表示为从 \fB1\fR 到 \fB9999\fR 的十进制整数。缺省值为当前年份。
.RE

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBcal\fR 执行的以下环境变量的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)：\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_TIME\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTZ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
确定用于计算当前月份值的时区。
.RE

.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
成功完成。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBcalendar\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 附注
.sp
.LP
列显 1752 年 9 月这个不寻常的日历。该月跳过了 11 天，旨在针对闰年进行调整。要查看该日历，请键入：
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cal 9 1752
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
命令 \fBcal 83\fR 指的是年份 83，而非 1983。
.sp
.LP
年份始终视为从一月开始。
