'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase"this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard,the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH tsort 1 "2011 年 6 月 8 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
tsort \- 拓扑排序
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBtsort\fR [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBtsort\fR 命令会在标准输出中生成完整排序的项目列表，与输入 \fIfile\fR 中提到的部分项目顺序一致。
.sp
.LP
输入由以空白分隔的项目对（非空字符串）组成。不同项目对表示排序。相同项目对表示存在，但不表示排序。
.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
要排序的文本文件的路径名。如果未提供 \fIfile\fR 操作数，则使用标准输入。
.RE

.SH 示例
.LP
\fB示例 1 \fRtsort 命令的示例
.sp
.LP
此命令：

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtsort <<EOF
a b c c d e
g g
f g e f
EOF\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
会生成输出：

.sp
.in +2
.nf
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBtsort\fR 执行的以下环境变量的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)：\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
成功完成。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBlorder\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 诊断
.sp
.LP
\fBOdd data:\fR 输入文件中存在奇数字段。
