'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH tty 1 "2011 年 7 月 28 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
tty \- 返回用户的终端名称
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tty\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBtty\fR 实用程序可将以标准输入格式打开的终端的名称写入标准输出。使用的名称等效于 \fBttyname\fR(3C) 函数返回的字符串。
.SH 选项
.sp
.LP
支持以下选项：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
列显用户终端（如果它在有效的同步行中）连接到的同步行号。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
禁止输出终端路径名，只允许测试退出状态。
.RE

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBtty\fR 执行的环境变量 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR 的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)。 
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
标准输入是终端。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
标准输入不是终端。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
CSIEnabled（已启用）
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准\fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBisatty\fR(3C)、\fBttyname\fR(3C)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 诊断
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot on an active synchronous line\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
标准输入不是同步终端，并且指定了 \fB-l\fR。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot a tty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
标准输入不是终端，并且未指定 \fB-s\fR。
.RE

.SH 附注
.sp
.LP
仅当退出状态是需要的状态时 \fB-s\fR 选项才有用。它并不依赖于构成有效路径名的能力。可移植应用程序应该使用 \fBtest\fR \fB-t\fR。
