'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-polld.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   cups-polld man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH cups-polld 8 "CUPS" "12 February 2006" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cups-polld \- cups printer polling daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-polld
.I address ipp-port interval browse-port
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcups-polld\fR polls remote servers for a list of available
printers and printer classes every \fIinterval\fR seconds.
Printer and class information is then broadcast to the localhost
interface (127.0.0.1) on the specified browse port for reception
by \fIcupsd(8)\fR.
.PP
This program is started automatically by \fIcupsd\fR for every
\fIBrowsePoll\fR directive found in the \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR file.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-polld.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
