'\" te
.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-KITLOAD 8 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-kitload \- installs a data kit into the foomatic database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-kitload
[\fI -k kit-dir\fR]
[\fI -d dest-dir\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-kitload
installs a foomatic data kit into the local data library.  It takes a 
\fI-k\fR \fIdirname\fR
option, where \fIdirname\fR is the toplevel directory of a foomatic
driver "kit".  A "kit" is a selection of XML source files arranged
exactly as in the source/section of the master database (ie, opt/driver/printer/ subdirs).

Gimp-Print's foomatic-generator produces exactly such a kit.

Foomatic-kitload is moderately paranoid about kits: the kit must
contain at least one of \fIprinter\fR, \fIdriver\fR or \fIopt\fR; the
kit must contain only files ending in \fI.xml\fR, the kit cannot be
the local library itself, etc.  But it does not inspect the contents
of the kit files in any way.


.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI \-k \ dirname
dirname is the toplevel directory of a foomatic driver "kit". 
.TP 10
.BI \-d \ destdir
destdir is a prefix to prepend to the install path.  This will not normally
be required, but is useful if installing into a temporary `staging area'
prior to installing in the final destination.

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".IR foomatic-XXX (1),

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-kitload
returns 0 on success, 255 or something else when an error occurs.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> for the foomatic
project using output from the associated binary.

.SH BUGS

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic



.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups/filter/foomatic-db-engine
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  /foomatic-db-engine-3.0-20080903.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting/database/foomatic/.
