'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: mime.convs.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   mime.convs man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH mime.convs 5 "CUPS" "20 March 2006" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
mime.convs \- mime type conversion file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImime.convs\fR file defines the filters that are available
for converting files from one format to another. The standard
filters support text, PDF, PostScript, HP-GL/2, and many types of
image files.
.LP
Additional filters can be added to the \fImime.convs\fR file or
(preferably) to other files in the CUPS configuration directory.
.LP
Each line in the \fImime.convs\fR file is a comment, blank, or filter
line. Comment lines start with the # character. Filter lines specify
the source and destination MIME types along with a relative cost
associated with the filter and the filter to run:
.br
.nf

super/type super/type cost filter
application/postscript application/vnd.cups-raster 50 pstoraster
.fi

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.types(5)\fR, \fIprinters.conf(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: mime.convs.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
