'\" te
.TH sane-ibm 5 "15 Apr 2003" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane-ibm
.SH NAME
sane-ibm \- SANE backend for IBM and Ricoh SCSI flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane-ibm
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to the IBM 2456 and the Ricoh IS-410, IS-420, and IS-430 flatbed
scanners. Support for the IS-410 and IS-430 is untested. Please contact the
maintainer or the sane-devel mailing list if you own such a scanner.
.PP
This backend is alpha-quality. It may have bugs and some scanners haven't been
tested at all. Be careful and pull the plug if the scanner causes unusual
noise.

.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is either the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a SCSI
scanner. The program
.I sane-find-scanner 
helps to find out the correct device. Under Linux, such a device name could be
.I /dev/sg0
or
.IR /dev/sga ,
for example.  See 
.BR sane-scsi (5)
for details.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I ibm.conf
file is a list of device names that correspond to SCSI
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  See 
.BR sane-scsi (5)
on details of what constitutes a valid device name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/ibm.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-ibm.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-ibm.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_IBM
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane-find-scanner (1),
.BR sane-scsi (5),

.SH AUTHOR
mf <massifr@tiscalinet.it>
.br
Maintained by Henning Meier-Geinitz <henning@meier-geinitz.de>


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
