'\" te
.TH sane-sp15c 5 "17 Apr 2002" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"

.SH NAME
sane-sp15c \- SANE backend for Fujitsu ScanPartner 15C flatbed scanner

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane-sp15c
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access to the Fujitsu flatbed scanners.
At present, the following
scanner is known to work with these backend:
.PP
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor:  Model:           Rev:
-------- ---------------- -----
FCPA     ScanPartner 15C  1.01
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.P

The ScanPartner 15C driver supports
lineart (1-bit), halftone (1-bit),
grayscale (4-bit and 8-bit),
and color (3 x 8-bit) scanning.

Other scanners in these families may work.
The ScanPartner 15C seems to be a repackaging
of the ScanPartner 600C.
People are encouraged to try these driver with the other scanners
and to contact the author with test results.

.SH CONFIGURATION
A modest effort has been made to expose the standard options to the API.
This allows frontends such as xscanimage to set scanning region,
resolution, bit-depth (and color), and enable the automatic document feeder.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane-scsi(5), sane-fujitsu(5)
.br
Fujitsu ScanPartner 15C OEM Manual, Doc. No. 250-0081-0
.br
Fujitsu M3096G OEM Manual, part number 50FH5028E-05
.br
Fujitsu M3096GX/M3093GX/M3093DG OEM Manual, part number C150-E015...03

.SH AUTHOR
Randolph Bentson
<bentson@holmsjoen.com>,
with credit to the unnamed author of the coolscan driver

.SH LIMITATIONS
Testing limited to a Linux 2.2.5 kernel
.br
Can't quite get the scan page/minute performance in ADF modes.
This may be due to limited system buffer size.

.SH BUGS
I'm sure there are plenty, and not too well hidden,
but I haven't seen them yet.
.br
Both scanners claim to have separate control
of resolution in X and Y directions.
I confess I haven't tested this yet.
I have found that xsane doesn't even display this capability.
.br
Threshold settings on the SP15C don't seem to
affect the results of lineart mode scans.
.br
It might be possible to merge these two drivers without much effort
since the SP15C driver was derived from the M3096G driver.
They were split so as to keep the second driver development from breaking
the working first driver.
Watch this space for changes.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
