'\" te
.TH sane-cardscan 5 "2007-07-14" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane-cardscan

.SH NAME
sane-cardscan \- SANE backend for Corex CardScan 800c usb scanner

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B sane-cardscan
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend which
provides access to the Corex CardScan 800c small-format scanner.

The backend supports only grayscale and color modes and media of 
(theoretically) infinite length.

This backend may support other scanners. The best
way to determine level of support is to get a trace of the windows 
driver in action, and send it to the author.

.SH OPTIONS
The cardscan backend supports the following options:
.PP
mode m
.RS
Selects the mode for the scan. Options are "Gray" and "Color".
.RE
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file "cardscan.conf" is used to tell the backend how to look
for scanners, and provide options controlling the operation of the backend.
This file is read each time the frontend asks the backend for a list 
of scanners, generally only when the frontend starts. If the configuration
file is missing, the backend will use a set of compiled defaults, which
are identical to the default configuration file shipped with SANE.
.PP
Scanners can be specified in the configuration file in 2 ways:
.PP
"usb 0x04c5 0x1042" (or other vendor/product ids)
.RS
Requests backend to search all usb busses in the system for a device 
which uses that vendor and product id. The device will then be queried
to determine if it is a cardscan scanner.
.RE
.PP
"usb /dev/usb/scanner0" (or other device file)
.RS
Some systems use a kernel driver to access usb scanners. This method is untested.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The backend uses a single environment variable, SANE_DEBUG_CARDSCAN, which
enables debugging output to stderr. Valid values are:
.PP
.RS
5  Errors
.br
10 Function trace
.br
15 Function detail
.br
20 Option commands
.br
25 SCSI/USB trace
.br
30 SCSI/USB detail
.br
35 Useless noise
.RE

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.PP
.RS
The scanner does not seem to have much control possible, so the backend
cannot set x/y coordinate values, resolutions, etc. These things could
be simulated in the backend, but there are plenty of command line tools.
.br
.br
The backend also does not send all the commands that the windows driver 
does, so it may not function the same.
.br
.br
The backend does not have the calibration or ejection options of the 
windows driver.
.br
.br
.RE

.SH CREDITS
The hardware to build this driver was provided to the author by:
  Jeff Kowalczyk <jtk a t yahoo d o t com>


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7),
sane-usb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
m. allan noah: <kitno455 a t gmail d o t com>



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
