'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH asa 1 "2011 年 8 月 17 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
asa \- 将 FORTRAN 回车控制输出转换为可列显格式
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBasa\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBasa\fR 实用程序将其输入文件写入标准输出，将回车控制字符从文本文件映射到行式打印机控制序列。
.sp
.LP
每行的第一个字符都将从输入中删除，然后执行以下操作。
.sp
.LP
如果删除的字符为：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB空格\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
行的其余部分将原封不动地输出。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
它由换行符控制序列替换，后面紧跟输入行的其余部分。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
它由换页符控制序列替换，后面紧跟输入行的其余部分。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
它由一个控制序列替换，该控制序列导致列显返回到上一行的第一列，此处是输入行其余部分的列显位置。
.RE

.sp
.LP
对于输入行第一列中的任何其他字符，\fBasa\fR 会跳过该字符，原封不动地列显该行的其余部分。
.sp
.LP
如果在未提供 \fIfilename\fR 的情况下调用 \fBasa\fR，则使用标准输入。
.SH 选项
.sp
.LP
支持以下选项：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
在新页面上启动每个文件。
.RE

.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
用于输入的文本文件的路径名。如果未指定 \fBfile\fR 操作数或指定了 \fB - \fR，则使用标准输入。
.RE

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBasa\fR 执行的以下环境变量的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)：\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
所有输入文件都已成功输出。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
