'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH dircmp 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
dircmp \- 目录比较
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBdircmp\fR [\fB-ds\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIn\fR] \fIdir1\fR \fIdir2\fR
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBdircmp\fR 命令检查 \fIdir1\fR 和 \fIdir2\fR，并生成有关目录内容的各种表格化信息。为所有选项生成每个目录独有的文件列表。如果未输入任何选项，则输出一个列表，指示两个目录都有的文件名是否具有相同的内容。
.SH 选项
.sp
.LP
支持以下选项：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
比较两个目录中名称相同的文件的内容，并输出一个列表以指示要使两个文件一致必须在其中更改什么内容。列表格式如 \fBdiff\fR(1) 中所述。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
禁止有关完全相同的文件的消息。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
将输出行的宽度更改为 \fIn\fR 个字符。缺省宽度为 \fB72\fR。
.RE

.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdir1\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIdir2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
要比较的目录的路径名。
.RE

.SH 用法
.sp
.LP
有关 \fBdircmp\fR 遇到大于或等于 2 GB（2^31 字节）文件时行为的说明，请参见 \fBlargefile\fR(5)。
.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBdircmp\fR 执行情况的以下环境变量－\fBLC_COLLATE\fR、\fB LC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR 的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)。
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
成功完成。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。（不将目录内容方面的差异视为错误。）
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBcmp\fR(1)、\fBdiff\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBlargefile\fR(5)
