'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 by the FundsXpress, INC.All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Export of this software from the United States of America may require a specific license from the United States Government.It is the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to obtain such a license before exporting.WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of FundsXpress. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.FundsXpress makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.TH kvno 1 "2011 年 11 月 29 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
kvno \- 输出 Kerberos 主体的主要版本号
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBkvno\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR] 
     [\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR] \fIprinc_host\fR [\fIprinc_host\fR ...]
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBkvno\fR 用于获取指定 Kerberos 主体的服务票证，并输出各个 Kerberos 主体的主要版本号。
.SH 选项
.sp
.LP
支持以下选项：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
指定要使用的非缺省凭证高速缓存的名称。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
指定要为命令行上指定的所有服务的会话密钥请求的 \fIenctype\fR。
.sp
这在某些向后兼容性情形下非常有用。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
列显用法语句并退出。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
指定 \fIprinc_host\fR 参数将被视为服务（应当使用约束委托获取其凭证）。 
.sp
此选项仅在与协议转换一起使用时才有效。 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
禁止输出。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
指定使用 \fBkrb5_sname_to_principal()\fR 来构建主体名称。如果指定此标志，\fIprinc_host\fR 参数将被解释为主机名（而不是主体名称），\fIsname\fR 将被解释为服务名称。 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
指定使用协议转换 (\fBS4U2Self\fR) 来代表 \fBfor_user\fR 获取票证。 
.sp
如果未请求约束委托，则服务名称必须与凭证高速缓存客户端主体匹配。
.RE

.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprinc_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
如果指定了 \fB-S\fR 选项，则指定要获取其主要版本号的目标主体的主体名称或主机名。
.RE

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBkvno\fR 执行的以下环境变量的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)：\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBKRB5CCNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
凭证（票证）高速缓存的位置。
.RE

.SH 文件
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/krb5cc_[\fIuid\fR]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
凭证高速缓存的缺省位置。\fIuid\fR 是用户的十进制 UID。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性service/security/kerberos-5 
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBkdestroy\fR(1)、\fBkinit\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBkrb5envvar\fR(5)
