'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH logname 1 "2011 年 7 月 27 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
logname \- 返回用户的登录名
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/logname\fR
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBlogname\fR 可将用户的登录名写入标准输出。登录名是 \fBgetlogin\fR(3C) 函数返回的字符串。如果 \fBgetlogin()\fR 未成功返回，则将使用与调用进程的实际用户 ID 相对应的名称。
.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBlogname\fR 执行的以下环境变量的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)：\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下错误值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
成功完成。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 文件
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/profile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
登录时的用户环境
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
用户和计帐信息
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBenv\fR(1)、\fBlogin\fR(1)、\fBgetlogin\fR(3C)、\fButmpx\fR(4)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
