'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH tee 1 "2011 年 7 月 28 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
tee \- 复制标准输出
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR [\fB-ai\fR] [\fIfile\fR...]
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBtee\fR 可将标准输入复制到标准输出，也可将其复制到零个或多个文件。选项决定了是覆盖还是附加到指定的文件。tee 实用程序不会缓冲输出。如果向某个文件写入失败，尽管 \fBtee\fR 将以非零退出状态退出，但是会继续向其他文件写入。
.sp
.LP
可以指定的 \fIfile\fR 操作数的数目受底层操作系统限制。
.SH 选项
.sp
.LP
支持以下选项：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
将输出附加到文件而非将其覆盖。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
忽略中断。
.RE

.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
输出文件的路径名。
.RE

.SH 用法
.sp
.LP
有关 \fBtee\fR 遇到大于或等于 2 GB（2^31 字节）文件时行为的说明，请参见 \fBlargefile\fR(5)。
.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBtee\fR 执行的环境变量 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR 的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)。
.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
成功完成。标准输入已成功复制到所有输出文件。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出现错误。无法打开的文件或无法获取其状态的文件的数目。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
CSIEnabled（已启用）
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBcat\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBlargefile\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
