'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation.Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document.The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH type 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "用户命令"
.SH 名称
type \- 写入命令类型的说明
.SH 用法概要
.LP
.nf
\fBtype\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH 描述
.sp
.LP
\fBtype\fR 实用程序表示将各个 \fIname\fR 操作数用作命令时如何对其进行解释。\fBtype\fR 可显示关于各个操作数的信息，将操作数标识为 shell 内置命令、函数、别名、散列命令或关键字，并且在适用情况下还会显示操作数的路径名。
.sp
.LP
还有一个 \fBtype\fR 的 shell 内置版本，它类似于 \fBtype\fR 实用程序。
.SH 操作数
.sp
.LP
支持下列操作数：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
要解释的名称。
.RE

.SH 环境变量
.sp
.LP
有关影响 \fBtype\fR 执行的环境变量 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR 和 \fBNLSPATH\fR 的说明，请参见 \fBenviron\fR(5)。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPATH\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
确定 \fIname\fR 的位置。
.RE

.SH 退出状态
.sp
.LP
将返回以下退出值：
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
成功完成。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
出现错误。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
有关下列属性的说明，请参见 \fBattributes\fR(5)：
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性类型属性值
_
可用性system/core-os
_
接口稳定性Committed（已确定）
_
标准请参见 \fBstandards\fR(5)。
.TE

.SH 另请参见
.sp
.LP
\fBtypeset\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
