'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH line 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
line \- 1 行の読み取り
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBline\fR 
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBline\fR ユーティリティーは、標準入力から 1 行 (最大 1 行で、新しい行を含みます) をコピーして標準出力に出力します。\fB\fR\fBEOF\fR\fB の場合は、終了ステータス 1 を返し、\fR少なくとも新しい 1 行を必ず出力します。これは、多くの場合、シェルファイル内で使用され、ユーザーの端末から読み込みを行うために使用されます。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
終了ステータスは次のとおりです。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
正常終了
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB>\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
入力ファイルの終わり。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、マニュアルページの \fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBsh\fR(1)、\fBread\fR(2)、\fBattributes\fR(5)
