'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH true 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
true, false \- 真偽値の提供
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBtrue\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfalse\fR 
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBtrue\fR ユーティリティーは、成功時には何もしません。\fBfalse\fR ユーティリティーは、不成功時には何もしません。通常、これらは次のようなシェルスクリプト \fBsh\fR で使用されます。
.sp
.in +2
.nf
while true
do
            \fIcommand\fR
done
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
これは、\fIcommand\fR を永久に実行します。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
\fBtrue\fR の終了ステータスは \fB0\fR です。
.sp
.LP
\fBfalse\fR は、終了時には常に 0 以外の値になります。
.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、マニュアルページの \fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBsh\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
