'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH tsort 1 "2011 年 6 月 8 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
tsort \- 位相的ソート
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBtsort\fR [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBtsort\fR コマンドは、入力 \fIfile\fR に記述されている項目の部分順序付けと整合性のある、完全に順序付けされた項目リストを標準出力上に生成します。
.sp
.LP
入力は、空白で区切られた項目のペア (空でない文字列) で構成されます。異なる項目のペアは、順序付けを示します。同一項目のペアは、順序付けではなく存在を示します。
.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドを指定できます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
順序付けをするテキストファイルのパス名。\fIfile\fR オペランドが指定されていない場合は、標準入力が使用されます。
.RE

.SH 使用例
.LP
\fB例 1 \fRtsort コマンドの例
.sp
.LP
次のコマンド

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtsort <<EOF
a b c c d e
g g
f g e f
EOF\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
を実行すると、出力は次のようになります。

.sp
.in +2
.nf
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBtsort\fR の実行に影響を及ぼす環境変数 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL \fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR については、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了ステータスが返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB>\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラーが発生した。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、マニュアルページの \fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBlorder\fR(1)、\fBattributes\fR(5)、\fBenviron\fR(5)、\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 診断
.sp
.LP
\fBOdd data:\fR 入力ファイルに奇数のフィールドが存在します。
