.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd January 2, 2012      \" DATE 
.Dt netbarrierd 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm netbarrierd
.Nd NetBarrier main daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
manages the NetBarrier settings. The primary interface to
.Nm
is the NetBarrier application which allows the user to configure its various settings.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
You should not invoke
.Nm
directly. Instead
.Nm
is managed by launchd as a system daemon.
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.intego.netbarrier.daemon.plist" -compact
.It Pa /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.intego.netbarrier.daemon.plist
launchd daemon.
.It Pa /Library/Preferences/Intego/NetBarrier/
Preferences files.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.\" .Xr vbscanner 1 , 
.\" .Xr virusbarriers 8 ,
.\" .Xr virusbarrierb 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner