'\" te
.TH EXTRACTRES 1 "PSUtils Release 1 Patchlevel 17"
.SH NAME
extractres \- filter to extract resources from a PostScript document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extractres 
[
.B \-m
] < 
.I document.ps
>
.I output.ps
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Extractres
extracts resources (fonts, procsets, patterns, files, etc) appearing in a
PostScript document, and puts appropriate
.I %%IncludeResource
comments in the document prologue. The extracted resources are written to
files with the same name as the resource, and an appropriate extension. The
pipeline
.sp
.ce
extractres file.ps | includeres >out.ps
.sp
will move all resources appearing in a document to the document prologue,
removing redundant copies. The output file can then be put through page
re-arrangement filters such as
.I psnup
or 
.I pstops
safely.
.PP
The
.B \-m
option combines the resources of the same name into one file; this must be
used for some programs which download fonts a bit at a time.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) Angus J. C. Duggan 1991-1995

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/psutils
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
psbook(1), psselect(1), pstops(1), epsffit(1), psnup(1), psresize(1), psmerge(1), fixscribeps(1), getafm(1), fixdlsrps(1), fixfmps(1), fixmacps(1), fixpsditps(1), fixpspps(1), fixtpps(1), fixwfwps(1), fixwpps(1), fixwwps(1), extractres(1), includeres(1)
.SH TRADEMARKS
.B PostScript
is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH BUGS
.I extractres
does not alter the
.I %%DocumentSuppliedResources
comments.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://gd.tuwien.ac.at/publishing/tex/tex-utils/psutils/psutils-p17.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://knackered.knackered.org/angus/psutils/.
