'\" te
.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-PPD-OPTIONS 1 "2003-09-16" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-ppd-options \- show the PPD options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-ppd-options [-d=debuglevel] [ ppdfiles ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B foomatic-ppd-options
program reads the specified PPD files or stdin and decodes the PPD file
to produce a list of options.
This is really just a text based version of other print configuration
tools.

.PP
The output format consists of a set of lines,
each starting with a keyword, followed by a set of options and the default value.
For example:
.RS
.nf

makemodel = Tektronix Phaser 350 Foomatic/Postscript (recommended)
name=PageSize; default=Letter; options=Letter (US Letter), \e
    A4 (A4), 11x17 (11x17), A3 (A3), A5 (A5), B5 (B5 \e(JIS\e)),...
name=PageRegion; default=Letter; options=Letter (US Letter), A4 (A4), ...
.fi
.RE

.PP
Each option starts with the
.B name
tag,
followed by a default value (if any),
followed by the set of options and a comment describing them.
Punctuation in the comment is escaped.
.SS Options
.TP 5
.BI \-d debuglevel
Set the debug level. 0 disables debug messages.

.TP 5
.BI  [\ files\ ]
The list of PPD files to read for options.
A '-' causes STDIN to be read.

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".IR foomatic-XXX (1),

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-ppd-options
exits with a 0 status if successful, and nonzero if an error.
An error message is also printed on standard error (STDERR).

.SH AUTHOR
Patrick Powell <papowell at astart.com>

.SH BUGS
Probably.  But it has been tested.



.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups/filter/foomatic-db-engine
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  /foomatic-db-engine-3.0-20080903.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting/database/foomatic/.
