'\" te
.\" $Id$
.TH GSinterface 1 "15 October 2002" Ghostscript \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
GSinterface \- LP interface script for using ghostscript under lpsched
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBGSinterface\fB 
[request\-id] [user] [title] [copies] [options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This shell script is intended to be uses as an LP interface script on
Solaris 2.6 and later systems.  It allows print queues to be configured
under LP using Ghostscript to render for the printer.
.PP
Configuration under lpsched is performed via the
.BR lpadmin(1M)
command.  
.PP
.nf
.na
	# lpadmin -p printer -v /dev/... -I"postscript,pdf" -Tunknown \\
		-i /usr/sfw/share/ghostscript/interfaces/GSinterface \\
		-o GS_DEVICE=(gs-device-type) \\
		[-o OutputFile=(file/device)] [-o PAPERSIZE=(size)] \\
		[-o RESOLUTION=XxY] [-o banner-type=(ascii|postscript)] \\
		[-o GS_OPTIONS="-sIjsServer=... -sIjsParams=..."]
.ad
.fi
.PP
Valid values for the GS_DEVICE setting can be obtained from Ghostscript by
running: "gs \-h". This will dump a variety of information about Ghostscript's
usage and compile time configuration.  The "Available devices:" section
lists the formats that Ghostscript will render to.  You will need to match one
of these formats to the format that your printer takes as input.

.SH EXAMPLES
.br
.PP
To configure a Canon Bublejet 800c (NeWSprinter CL+) printer connected to an ECP parallel port:
.nf
.na

	# lpadmin -p printer -v /dev/ecpp0 -I"postscript,pdf" -Tunknown \\
		-i /usr/sfw/share/ghostscript/interfaces/GSinterface \\
		-o GS_DEVICE=bjc800
	# accept printer
	# enable printer
.ad
.fi	
.PP
To configure an HP DeskJet 990 printer connected via a USB interface using IJS support:
.nf
.na

	# lpadmin -p printer -v /dev/usb/lp1 -I"postscript,pdf" -Tunknown \\
		-i /usr/sfw/share/ghostscript/interfaces/GSinterface \\
		-o GS_DEVICE=ijs \\
		-o GS_OPTIONS="-sIjsServer=hpijs -sDeviceManufacturer=HEWLETT-PACKARD -sDeviceModel='DESKJET 990' -DIjsUseOutputFD"
	# accept printer
	# enable printer
.ad
.fi	

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/filter/ghostscript
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ghostscript.com/releases/ghostscript-9.00.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://ghostscript.com/.
