'\" te
.TH GZNEW 1
.SH NAME
gznew \-   recompress .Z files to .gz files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gznew
[ -ftv9PK] [ name.Z ...  ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I  Gznew
recompresses files from .Z (compress) format to .gz (gzip) format.
If you want to recompress a file already in gzip format, rename the file
to force a .Z extension then apply gznew.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force recompression from .Z to .gz format even if a .gz file already exists.
.TP
.B \-t
Tests the new files before deleting originals.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose. Display the name and percentage reduction for each file compressed.
.TP
.B \-9
Use the slowest compression method (optimal compression).
.TP
.B \-P
Use pipes for the conversion to reduce disk space usage.
.TP
.B \-K
Keep a .Z file when it is smaller than the .gz file; implies
.BR -t .

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	compress/gzip
=
Stability	Committed
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gzip(1), gzmore(1), gzdiff(1), gzgrep(1), gzforce(1), gzexe(1), compress(1)
.SH BUGS
If the
.B \-P
option is used,
.I gznew
does not maintain the time stamp if
.IR touch (1)
does not support the
.B \-r
option, and does not maintain permissions if
.IR chmod (1)
does not support the
.B \-\-reference
option.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gzip/gzip-1.5.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/.
