'\" te
'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Modified for Solaris to add the Solaris stability classification,
.\" and to add a note about source availability.
.\"
.TH "IB_CLOCK_TEST" 1 "4 April 2011" "User Commands"

.SH "NAME"
ib_clock_test \- Test accuracy of system clock used in conjunction with
other IB perftest utilities
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBib_clock_test\fR
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
The \fBib_clock_test\fR() test utility is part of the \fB"perftest"\fR
utilities that are used for InfiniBand related performance testing. The
\fB"perftest"\fR utilities (See \fBib_read_lat\fR(1), 
\fBib_write_bw_postlist\fR(1), \fBib_write_bw\fR(1), etc.) are micro
bench mark utilities. Users of the these can use \fBib_clock_test\fR(1M)
to test accuracy of system clock.
.sp
The \fBib_clock_test\fR(1M) utility, tests the accuracy of the system clock,
takes no parameters and provides the following output:
          #ib_clock_test
          Type CTRL-C to cancel.
          1 sec = 1.00004e+06 usec
          1 sec = 1.00004e+06 usec
          1 sec = 1.00004e+06 usec
          1 sec = 1.00004e+06 usec
          1 sec = 1.00004e+06 usec
          ...
.sp

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBib_write_bw\fR(1), \fBib_send_bw\fR(1), \fBrdma_lat\fR(1),
\fBib_read_bw\fR(1), \fBib_read_lat\fR(1), \fBib_write_bw_postlist\fR(1),
\fBrdma_bw\fR(1), \fBib_write_lat\fR(1), \fBib_send_lat\fR(1)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
