'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 by the FundsXpress, INC. All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Export of this software from the United States of America may require  a specific license from the United States Government.  It is the  responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to  obtain such a license before exporting.   WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and  distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and  without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright  notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and  this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that  the name of FundsXpress. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining  to distribution of the software without specific, written prior  permission.  FundsXpress makes no representations about the suitability of  this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express  or implied warranty.   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.TH kvno 1 "29 Nov 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kvno \- print key version numbers of Kerberos principals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkvno\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR] 
     [\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR] \fIprinc_host\fR [\fIprinc_host\fR ...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBkvno\fR acquires a service ticket for the specified Kerberos principals and prints out the key version numbers of each.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify the name of a credentials cache to use, if not the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify the \fIenctype\fR to be requested for the session key of all the services named on the command line.
.sp
This is useful in certain backward compatibility situations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Print a usage statement and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify that the \fIprinc_host\fR arguments are to be treated as services for which credentials should be acquired using constrained delegation. 
.sp
This option is only valid when used in conjunction with protocol transition. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Suppress printing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify that \fBkrb5_sname_to_principal()\fR is used to build principal names. If this flag is specified, the \fIprinc_host\fR arguments are interpreted as host names (rather than principal names), and \fIsname\fR is interpreted as the service name. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Specify that protocol transition (\fBS4U2Self\fR) is to be used to acquire a ticket on behalf of \fBfor_user\fR. 
.sp
If constrained delegation is not requested, the service name must match the credentials cache client principal.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprinc_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
If the \fB-S\fR option is specified, specifies either the principal name or host name, of the target principal for which to obtain the key version number.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBkvno\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBKRB5CCNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Location of the credentials (ticket) cache.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/krb5cc_[\fIuid\fR]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Default location of the credentials cache. \fIuid\fR is the decimal UID of the user.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/security/kerberos-5 
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkdestroy\fR(1), \fBkinit\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBkrb5envvar\fR(5)
