'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH lgrpinfo 1 "5 Mar 2012" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lgrpinfo \- display information about locality groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlgrpinfo\fR [\fB-aceGlLmrt\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIunit\fR] [\fB-C\fR | \fB-P\fR] \fIlgrp\fR ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlgrpinfo\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlgrpinfo\fR \fB-I\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-G\fR] [\fB-C\fR | \fB-P\fR] \fIlgrp\fR ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlgrpinfo\fR [\fB-T\fR] [\fB-aceGlLmr\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIunit\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlgrpinfo\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdevice_path\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrpinfo\fR prints information about the locality group (\fBlgroup\fR) hierarchy and its contents.
.sp
.LP
An \fBlgroup\fR represents the set of CPU and memory-like hardware devices that are at most some distance (latency) apart from each other. All \fBlgroup\fRs in the system are identified by a unique integer called an \fBlgroup ID\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBlgroup\fRs are organized into a hierarchy to facilitate finding the nearest resources. Leaf \fBlgroup\fRs each contain a set of resources that are closest (local) to each other. Each parent \fBlgroup\fR in the hierarchy contains the resources of its child \fBlgroup\fRs plus their next nearest resources. Finally, the \fBroot\fR \fBlgroup\fR contains all the resources in the domain within the largest latency.
.sp
.LP
A Uniform Memory Access (UMA) machine is simply represented by the root \fBlgroup\fR. A Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) machine is represented by a hierarchy of \fBlgroup\fRs to show the corresponding levels of locality. For example, a NUMA machine with two latencies (local and remote) has an \fBlgroup\fR hierarchy consisting of two levels with its leaves and the root.
.sp
.LP
Every application thread is assigned a \fBhome\fR lgroup. When the system needs to allocate a CPU or memory resource for a thread, it searches \fBlgroup\fR hierarchy from the thread's home \fBlgroup\fR for the closest available resources to the thread's home. See \fBplgrp\fR(1) for details.
.sp
.LP
Without arguments, \fBlgrpinfo\fR prints general information about all \fBlgroup\fRs in the system. If any \fBlgroup\fR IDs are specified on the command line, the command only prints information about the specified \fBlgroup\fRs. Various options control which \fBlgroup\fRs are displayed and the exact information that is printed for each \fBlgroup\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBlgroup\fRs can be specified on the command line as \fBlgroup\fR IDs or by using specific keywords. See \fBOPERANDS\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
You can combine options together and the order in which options are specified is not important. Lowercase options select what information should be printed about \fBlgroup\fRs. 
.sp
.LP
Invoking \fBlgrpinfo\fR without arguments is equivalent to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
lgrpinfo -c -e -l -m -r -t all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print topology, CPU, memory, load and latency information. 
.sp
This option is a shorthand for 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
lgrpinfo -t -c -e -m -r -l -L
.fi
.in -2
.sp

unless \fB-T\fR is specified as well. When \fB-T\fR is specified, the \fB-t\fR option is not included. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print CPU information. 
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Replace each \fBlgroup\fR in the list with its children.
.sp
This option cannot be used with the \fB-P\fR or the \fB-T\fR option. When no arguments are specified, this option is applied to the \fBlgroup\fRs displayed by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdevice_path\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print IDs of \fBlgroup\fRs closest to the specified I/O device. \fIdevice_path\fR is a string representing the device path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print \fBlgroup\fR load average. The \fBlgroup\fR load averages are only displayed for leaf \fBlgroups\fR.
.sp
This is the default. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print OS view of \fBlgroup\fR hierarchy. 
.sp
By default, the caller's view of the \fBlgroup\fR hierarchy is displayed which only includes what the caller can use, for example, only the CPUs in the caller's processor set is displayed. See \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) on the operating system and the caller's view.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print short help message and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print matching IDs only. 
.sp
This option is intended for scripts and can be used with \fB-c\fR, \fB-G\fR, and \fB-C\fR or \fB-P\fR. If \fB-c\fR is specified, print list of CPUs contained in all matching \fBlgroup\fRs. Otherwise, the IDs for the matching \fBlgroup\fRs is displayed. See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.sp
When no arguments are specified, this option is applied to the \fBlgroup\fRs displayed, which, by default is all \fBlgroup\fRs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print information about \fBlgroup\fR latencies. 
.sp
The latency value specified for each \fBlgroup\fR is defined by the operating system and is platform-specific. It can only be used for relative comparison of \fBlgroup\fRs on the running system. It does not necessarily represent the actual latency between hardware devices and might not be applicable across platforms.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print the \fBlgroup\fR latency table. The \fBlgroup\fR latency table displays the relative latency from each \fBlgroup\fR to each of the other \fBlgroups\fR including itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print memory information. 
.sp
Memory sizes are scaled to the unit of measure that yields an integer from \fB0\fR to \fB1023\fR unless the \fB-u\fR option is specified as well. The fractional part of the number is only displayed for values less than \fB10\fR. This behavior is similiar to using the \fB-h\fR option of \fBls\fR(1) or \fBdf\fR(1M) to display a human readable format.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Replace each \fBlgroup\fR in the list with its parents. 
.sp
This option cannot be used with the \fB-C\fR or \fB-T\fR option. When no arguments are specified, this option is applied to the \fBlgroup\fRs displayed, which, by default is all \fBlgroup\fRs. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print information about \fBlgroup\fR resources. 
.sp
The resources are represented by a set of \fBlgroup\fRs in which each member \fBlgroup\fR directly contains CPU and memory resources. If \fB-T\fR is specified as well, only information about resources of the intermediate \fBlgroup\fRs is displayed. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print information about \fBlgroup\fR topology.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Print the \fBlgroup\fR topology of a system graphically as a tree. This option can only be used with the \fB-a\fR, \fB-c\fR, \fB-e\fR, \fB-G\fR, \fB-l\fR,\fB-L\fR, \fB-m\fR, \fB-r\fR, and \fB-u\fR options. It only prints \fBlgroup\fR resources for intermediate \fBlgroup\fRs when used with the \fB-r\fR. The \fB-t\fR option is omitted when \fB-T\fR is used with \fB-a\fR. No information is printed for the \fBroot\fR \fBlgroup\fR unless it is the only \fBlgroup\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIunits\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Specify memory units. Units should be b, k, m, g, t, p, or e for bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, terabytes, petabytes, or exabytes respectively. The fractional part of the number is only displayed for values less than 10. This behavior is similiar to using the \fB-h\fR option of \fBls\fR(1) or \fBdf\fR(1M) to display a human readable format.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlgrp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
\fBlgroup\fRs can be specified on the command line as \fBlgroup\fR ID, by using one of the following keywords:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBall\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
All \fBlgroup\fRs.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBintermediate\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
All intermediate \fBlgroup\fRs. An intermediate lgroup is an \fBlgroup\fR that has a parent and children.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBleaves\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
All leaf \fBlgroup\fRs. A leaf \fBlgroup\fR is an \fBlgroup\fR that has no children in the \fBlgroup\fR hierarchy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBroot\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Root \fBlgroup\fR. Root \fBlgroup\fR contains all the resources in the domain within the largest latency and has no parent \fBlgroup\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
If an invalid \fBlgroup\fR is specified, the lgrpinfo command prints a message on standard error showing the invalid ID and continues processing other \fBlgroup\fRs specified on the command line. When none of the specified \fBlgroup\fRs are valid, \fBlgrpinfo\fR exits with an exit status of \fB2\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPrinting Information about lgroups
.sp
.LP
The following example prints general information about \fBlgroup\fRs in the system. 

.sp
.LP
In this example, the system is a 2 CPU AMD Opteron machine with two nodes, each having one CPU and 2 gigabytes of memory. Each of these nodes is represented by a leaf \fBlgroup\fR. The root \fBlgroup\fR contains all the resources in the machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo
  lgroup 0 (root):
          Children: 1 2
          CPUs: 0 1
          Memory: installed 4.0G, allocated 2.2G, free 1.8G
          Lgroup resources: 1 2 (CPU); 1 2 (memory)
          Latency: 83
  lgroup 1 (leaf):
          Children: none, Parent: 0
          CPU: 0
          Memory: installed 2.0G, allocated 1.2G, free 788M
          Lgroup resources: 1 (CPU); 1 (memory)
          Load: 0.793
          Latency: 56
  lgroup 2 (leaf):
          Children: none, Parent: 0
          CPU: 1
          Memory: installed 2.0G, allocated 1017M, free 1.0G
          Lgroup resources: 2 (CPU); 2 (memory)
          Load: 0.817
          Latency: 56
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRPrinting lgroup Topology
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the lgroup topology tree on a 4 CPU AMD Opteron machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo -T
  0
  |-- 5
  |   `-- 1
  |-- 6
  |   `-- 2
  |-- 7
  |   `-- 3
  `-- 8
      `-- 4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRPrinting lgroup Topology
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the lgroup topology tree, resources, memory and CPU information on a 2 CPU AMD Opteron machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo -Ta
  0
  |-- 1
  |   CPU: 0
  |   Memory: installed 2.0G, allocated 1.2G, free 790M
  |   Load: 0.274
  |   Latency: 56
  `-- 2
      CPU: 1
      Memory: installed 2.0G, allocated 1019M, free 1.0G
      Load: 0.937
      Latency: 56

Lgroup latencies:

------------
    |  0  1  2
  ------------
  0 | 83 83 83
  1 | 83 56 83
  2 | 83 83 56
  ------------
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRPrinting lgroup IDs
.sp
.LP
The following example prints lgroup IDs for children of the root lgroup: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo -I -C root
  1 2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRPrinting CPU IDs
.sp
.LP
The following example prints CPU IDs for all CPUs in lgroup 1:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo -c -I 1
  0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRPrinting Information about lgropu Latencies
.sp
.LP
The following example prints information about lgroup latencies: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 $ lgrpinfo -l
  lgroup 0 (root):
          Latency: 83
  lgroup 1 (leaf):
          Latency: 56
  lgroup 2 (leaf):
          Latency: 5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRPrinting IDs of lgroups Closest to a Given Device
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates that lgroups 2 and 6 are closest to the given device:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ lgrpinfo -d /dev/dsk/c9t0d0s0
  lgroup IDs : 2 6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Unable to get \fBlgroup\fR information from the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
All \fBlgroups\fR or the \fIdevice_path\fR specified are invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Invalid syntax.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The human readable output is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBls\fR(1), \fBplgrp\fR(1), \fBpmap\fR(1), \fBproc\fR(1), \fBps\fR(1), \fBdf\fR(1M), \fBprstat\fR(1M), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBlgrp_cpus\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_resources\fR(3LGRP), \fBproc\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
