'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: lppasswd.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   lpadmin man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lppasswd 1 "CUPS" "22 February 2008" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lppasswd \- add, change, or delete digest passwords.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lppasswd
[
.I username
]
.br
.B lppasswd
-a [ -g
.I groupname
]
.I username
.br
.B lppasswd
-x
.I username
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlppasswd\fR adds, changes, or deletes passwords in the CUPS
digest password file, \fIpasswd.md5\fR. When run by a normal
user, \fIlppasswd\fR will prompt for the old and new passwords.
When run by the super-user, \fIlppasswd\fR can add new accounts
(\fI-a username\fR), change existing accounts (\fIusername\fR),
or delete accounts (\fI-x username\fR) in the digest password
file. Digest usernames do not have to match local UNIX usernames.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIlppasswd\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
-g groupname
.br
Specifies a group other than the default system group.
.SH SECURITY ISSUES
By default, the \fIlppasswd\fR program is not installed to allow ordinary
users to change their passwords. To enable this, the \fIlppasswd\fR command
must be made setuid to root with the command:
.br
.nf
chmod u+s lppasswd
.fi
.PP
While every attempt has been made to make \fIlppasswd\fR secure against
exploits that could grant super-user privileges to unprivileged users,
paranoid system administrators may wish to use Basic authentication with
accounts managed by PAM instead.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lppasswd.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
