'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: lpr.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   lpr man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpr 1 "CUPS" "29 August 2008" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lpr \- print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[ -E ] [ -H
.I server[:port]
] [ -U
.I username
] [ -P
.I destination[/instance]
] [ -#
.I num-copies
[ -h ] [ -l ] [ -m ] [ -o
.I option[=value]
] [ -p] [ -q ] [ -r ] [ -C/J/T
.I title
] [
.I file(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpr\fR submits files for printing. Files named on the command
line are sent to the named printer (or the default destination if no
destination is specified). If no files are listed on the command-line,
\fIlpr\fR reads the print file from the standard input.
.SH THE DEFAULT DESTINATION
CUPS provides many ways to set the default destination. The "LPDEST" and
"PRINTER" environment variables are consulted first. If neither are set,
the current default set using the \fIlpoptions(1)\fR command is used,
followed by the default set using the \fIlpadmin(8)\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by \fIlpr\fR:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
-H server[:port]
.br
Specifies an alternate server.
.TP 5
-C "name"
.TP 5
-J "name"
.TP 5
-T "name"
.br
Sets the job name.
.TP 5
-P destination[/instance]
.br
Prints files to the named printer.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
-# \fIcopies\fR
.br
Sets the number of copies to print from 1 to 100.
.TP 5
-h
.br
Disables banner printing. This option is equivalent to "-o
job-sheets=none".
.TP 5
-l
.br
Specifies that the print file is already formatted for the
destination and should be sent without filtering. This option is
equivalent to "-o raw".
.TP 5
-m
.br
Send an email on job completion.
.TP 5
-o option[=value]
.br
Sets a job option.
.TP 5
-p
.br
Specifies that the print file should be formatted with a shaded
header with the date, time, job name, and page number. This
option is equivalent to "-o prettyprint" and is only useful when
printing text files.
.TP 5
-q
.br
Hold job for printing.
.TP 5
-r
.br
Specifies that the named print files should be deleted after
printing them.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The "c", "d", "f", "g", "i", "n", "t", "v", and "w" options
are not supported by CUPS and produce a warning message if used.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpadmin(8)\fR, \fIlpoptions(1)\fR,
\fIlpq(1)\fR, \fIlprm(1)\fR, \fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpr.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
