'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: lprm.man 8801 2009-08-29 06:05:14Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   lprm man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lprm 1 "CUPS" "28 August 2009" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lprm \- cancel print jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprm
[ -E ] [ -U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] [ -P
.I destination[/instance]
] [ - ] [
.I job ID(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlprm\fR cancels print jobs that have been queued for printing.
If no arguments are supplied, the current job on the default
destination is cancelled. You can specify one or more job ID
numbers to cancel those jobs or use the \fI-\fR option to cancel
all jobs.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fIlprm\fR command supports the following options:
.TP 5
-E
.br
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
-P destination[/instance]
.br
Specifies the destination printer or class.
.TP 5
-U username
.br
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
-h server[:port]
.br
Specifies an alternate server.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The CUPS version of \fIlprm\fR is compatible with the standard
Berkeley \fIlprm\fR command.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcancel(1)\fR, \fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpq(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR,
\fIlpstat(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lprm.man 8801 2009-08-29 06:05:14Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
