'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 2013, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mailcompat 1 "26 Mar 2012" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mailcompat \- provide SunOS compatibility for Solaris mailbox format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmailcompat\fR is a program to provide SunOS 4.\fIx\fR compatability for the Solaris mailbox format. You would typically run \fBmailcompat\fR to be able to read mail on a workstation running SunOS 4.\fIx\fR when your mail server is running Solaris.
.sp
.LP
Enabling \fBmailcompat\fR creates an entry in your \fB\&.forward\fR file, if it exists. If this file does not exist, \fBmailcompat\fR will create it. Disabling \fBmailcompat\fR will remove the entry from the \fB\&.forward\fR file, and if this was the only entry, will remove the entire file.
.sp
.LP
To execute \fBmailcompat\fR, log onto the Solaris mail server and enter \fBmailcompat\fR on the command line. Answer the queries provided by the program.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmailcompat\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.sp
.LP
Depending on the security settings in your system, \fBmailcompat\fR can fail to create a \fB\&.forward\fR file.  If you encounter such a failure, take the steps outlined below.
.sp
.LP
As root user or user with comparable privileges, enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsendmail -bv $USER\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
You receive one of the following two messages. The string \fBfwtest\fR is for example purposes only.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
fwtest... deliverable: mailer local, user fwtest

"|/usr/bin/mailcompat fwtest"... deliverable: mailer prog,\e
user "|/usr/bin/mailcompat fwtest"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The first message, with the \fBlocal\fR designation, indicates that \fBmailcompat\fR was not able to create the \fB\&.forward\fR file. The second message, with the \fBprog\fR designation, means that \fBmailcompat\fR succeeded in creating \fB\&.forward\fR.
.sp
.LP
As a further check, invoke:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBcheck-permissions $USER\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
You should get the message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
No unsafe directories found.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you get a message different from this, it might indicate a reason for \fBmailcompat\fR failure. You should correct any conditions pointed out by the message before retrying \fBmailcompat\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of the \fBmailcompat\fR feature.
.sp
.LP
The following example enables the \fBmailcompat\fR feature for the user \fBjohn\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmailcompat\fR
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
To enable the mailcompat feature a ".forward" file is created.
Would you like to enable the mailcompat feature? Y
Mailcompat feature ENABLED.Run mailcompat with no arguments to remove it
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example disables the \fBmailcompat\fR feature for the user \fBjohn\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmailcompat\fR
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
You have a .forward file in your home directory containing:
    "|/usr/bin/mailcompat johns"
Would you like to remove it and disable the mailcompat feature? y
Back to normal reception of mail.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB~/.forward\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
list of recipients for forwarding messages
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmailx\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
.LP
Note - 
.sp
.RS 2
This command is obsolete and will be removed in a future release of Oracle Solaris.
.RE
