'\" te
.ig
Copyright (C) 1989, 2001, 2009, 2011
  Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.
.TH MMROFF 1 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.SH NAME
mmroff \- cross reference preprocessor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmroff
[
.I -x
]
.I groff_arguments
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmmroff\fP is a simple preprocessor for \fBgroff\fP, it is
used for expanding cross references in \fBmgm\fP, see
\fBgroff_mm(5)\fP.
\fBgroff\fP is executed twice, first with \fB-z\fP and \fB-rRef=1\fR
to collect all cross references and then to do the real processing
when the cross reference file is up to date.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Just create the cross reference file.
This can be used to refresh the cross reference file,
it isn't always needed to have accurate
cross references and by using this option \fBgroff\fP will only
be run once.
.\".SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Jörgen Hägg, Lund, Sweden <jh@axis.se>.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/gm.tmac
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/mm/*.cov
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/mm/*.MT
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/mm/locale

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	text/groff
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR groff_mm(5),
.BR groff_mmse(5),
.BR groff (1),
.BR gtroff (1),
.BR gtbl (1),
.BR gpic (1),
.BR geqn (1)
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" coding: latin-1
.\" End:


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/groff/groff-1.22.2.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/.
