'\" te
.\" $Id: ps2pdf.1 11721 2010-09-14 14:56:26Z chrisl $
.TH PS2PDF 1 "14 September 2010" 9.00 Ghostscript \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
ps2pdf \- Convert PostScript to PDF using ghostscript
.br
ps2pdf12 \- Convert PostScript to PDF\ 1.2 (Acrobat\ 3-and-later compatible) using ghostscript
.br
ps2pdf13 \- Convert PostScript to PDF\ 1.3 (Acrobat\ 4-and-later compatible) using ghostscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBps2pdf\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.br
\fBps2pdf12\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.br
\fBps2pdf13\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ps2pdf
scripts are work-alikes for nearly all the functionality (but not the
user interface) of Adobe's Acrobat(TM) Distiller(TM) product: they
convert PostScript files to Portable Document Format (PDF) files. 
.PP
If the output filename is not specified, the output is placed is a file 
of the same name with a '.pdf' extension. Either the input filename or
the output filename can be '-' to request reading from stdin or writing
to stdout, respectively, when used as a filter.
.PP
The three scripts differ as follows:
.IP -
.B ps2pdf12
will always produce PDF 1.2 output (Acrobat 3-and-later compatible).
.IP -
.B ps2pdf13
will always produce PDF 1.3 output (Acrobat 4-and-later compatible).
.IP -
.B ps2pdf
per se currently produces PDF 1.4 output.
However, this may change in the future. If you care about
the compatibility level of the output, use
.B ps2pdf12
or
.BR ps2pdf13 ,
or use the
.B \-dCompatibility=1.x
switch in the command line.
.PP
There are some limitations in
.BR ps2pdf 's
conversion. See the HTML documentation for more information. A large 
number of Adobe Distiller(TM) parameters which can be used to control
the conversion are also documented there, including instructions for 
generating PDF/X and PDF/A documents.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B ps2pdf
scripts use the same options as gs(1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Converting a figure.ps to figure.pdf:
.IP
.B ps2pdf
.I figure.ps
.LP
A conversion with more specifics:
.IP
.B ps2pdf
-dPDFSETTINGS=/prepress 
.I figure.ps proof.pdf
.LP
Converting as part of a pipe:
.IP
.B make_report.pl 
-t ps |
.B ps2pdf
-dCompatibility=1.3 - - |
.B lpr

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/filter/ghostscript
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1), ps2pdfwr(1),
.br
Ps2pdf.htm in the Ghostscript documentation
.SH BUGS
See http://bugs.ghostscript.com/ and the Usenet news group
comp.lang.postscript.
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised for Ghostscript version 9.00.
.SH AUTHOR
Artifex Software, Inc. are the
primary maintainers of Ghostscript.
This manpage by George Ferguson.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ghostscript.com/releases/ghostscript-9.00.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://ghostscript.com/.
