'\" te
.\" $Id: ps2pdfwr.1 11721 2010-09-14 14:56:26Z chrisl $
.TH PS2PDFWR 1 "14 September 2010" 9.00 Ghostscript \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
ps2pdfwr \- Convert PostScript to PDF without specifying CompatibilityLevel, using ghostscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBps2pdfwr\fR  [options...] {input.[e]ps|-} [output.pdf|-]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This wrapper script invokes
.BR gs (1)
with following arguments

.ce
.B -q -dNOPAUSE -dBATCH -sDEVICE=pdfwrite

as well as the appropriate
.B -dOutputFile
argument, all preceded and followed by any command-line arguments. Finally, the security option
.B -dSAFER
is prepended before all the other options.

The version-specific
.B ps2pdf
scripts all invoke this one with the addition of the respective compatibility level option.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/filter/ghostscript
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1), ps2pdf(1)
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised for Ghostscript version 9.00.
.SH AUTHOR
Artifex Software, Inc. are the
primary maintainers of Ghostscript.
This manpage by George Ferguson.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ghostscript.com/releases/ghostscript-9.00.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://ghostscript.com/.
