'\" te
.TH sane-config 1 "8 Jan 2004" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.SH NAME
sane-config \- get information about the installed version of libsane
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  sane-config [--prefix] [--exec-prefix] [--libs] [--cflags] [--ldflags] [--version] [--help \fI[OPTION]\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sane-config
is a tool that is used to determine the compiler and linker
flags that should be used to compile and link
.B SANE
frontends to a
.B SANE
backend library (libsane).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.l
.B sane-config
accepts the following options (you can't use more than one option at the same time):
.TP 8
.B  --version
Print the currently installed version of libsane on the standard output.
.TP 8
.B  --help OPTION
Print a short usage message. If OPTION is specified, help for that option
(e.g. --libs) is printed (if available).
.TP 8
.B  --libs
Print the additional libraries that are necessary to link a
.B SANE
frontend to libsane.
.TP 8
.B  --ldflags
Print the linker flags that are necessary to link a
.B  SANE
frontend to libsane.
.TP 8
.B  --cflags
Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a
.B SANE
frontend. 
.TP 8
.B  --prefix
Print the prefix used during compilation of libsane.
.TP 8
.B  --exec-prefix
Print the exec-prefix used during compilation of libsane.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien BLACHE <jblache@debian.org>, for the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
