'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH sccs-unget 1 "23 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-unget, unget \- undo a previous get of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBunget\fR [\fB-ns\fR] [\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBunget\fR utility undoes the effect of a \fBget\fR\fB-e\fR command executed before the creation of the pending delta.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fBunget\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Retains the retrieved version, which is otherwise removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Suppress display of the \fBSCCS\fR delta \fBID\fR (SID).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
When multiple versions are checked out, this option specifies which pending delta to abort. A diagnostic results if the specified \fBSID\fR is ambiguous, or if it is necessary but omitted from the command line.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBunget\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydeveloper/build/make
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-get\fR(1), \fBsccs-help\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBsccs-rmdel\fR(1), \fBsccs-sact\fR(1), \fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsccs-help\fR command for explanations of SCCS commands. See \fBsccs-help\fR(1).
