'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH sccs-rmdel 1 "2 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-rmdel, rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrmdel\fR \fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrmdel\fR utility removes the delta specified by the \fBSCCS\fR delta \fBID\fR (\fBSID\fR) supplied with \fB-r\fR. The delta to be removed must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. In addition, the \fBSID\fR must \fInot\fR be that of a version checked out for editing: it must not appear in any entry of the version lock file (\fBp.\fRfile).
.sp
.LP
If you created the delta, or, if you own the file and directory and have write permission, you can remove it with \fBrmdel\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fBrmdel\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIsid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Remove the version corresponding to the indicated \fBSID\fR (delta).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBrmdel\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBp.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
permissions file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBs.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
history file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBz.\fR\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
temporary copy of the \fBs.\fRfile
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydeveloper/build/make
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-admin\fR(1), \fBsccs-cdc\fR(1), \fBsccs-comb\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-help\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBsccs-sccsdiff\fR(1), \fBsccs-unget\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBSCCS\fR \fBhelp\fR command for explanations (see \fBsccs-help\fR(1)).
