'\" te
.TH VIMTUTOR 1 "2001 April 2"
.SH NAME
vimtutor \- the Vim tutor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B vimtutor [\-g] [language]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Vimtutor
starts the
.B Vim
tutor.
It copies the tutor file first, so that it can be modified without changing
the original file.
.PP
The
.B Vimtutor
is useful for people that want to learn their first
.B Vim
commands.
.PP
The optional argument \-g starts vimtutor with gvim rather than vim, if the
GUI version of vim is available, or falls back to Vim if gvim is not found.
.PP
The optional [language] argument is the two-letter name of a language, like
"it" or "es".
If the [language] argument is missing, the language of the current locale will
be used.
If a tutor in this language is available, it will be used.
Otherwise the English version will be used.
.PP
.B Vim
is always started in Vi compatible mode.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/usr/share/vim/vim73/tutor/tutor[.language]
The
.B Vimtutor
text file(s).
.TP 15
/usr/share/vim/vim73/tutor/tutor.vim
The Vim script used to copy the
.B Vimtutor
text file.
.SH AUTHOR
The
.B Vimtutor
was originally written for Vi by Michael C. Pierce and Robert K. Ware,
Colorado School of Mines using ideas supplied by Charles Smith,
Colorado State University.
E-mail: bware@mines.colorado.edu.
.br
It was modified for
.B Vim
by Bram Moolenaar.
For the names of the translators see the tutor files.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	editor/vim
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
vim(1)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  https://vim.googlecode.com/hg

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.vim.org/.
