'\" te
.\"
.\" Original zgrep.1 for gzip: Jean-loup Gailly
.\"                            Charles Levert <charles@comm.polymtl.ca>
.\"
.\" Modifications for XZ Utils: Lasse Collin
.\"
.\" License: GNU GPLv2+
.\"
.TH XZGREP 1 "2010-09-27" "Tukaani" "XZ Utils"
.SH NAME
xzgrep \- search compressed files for a regular expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xzgrep
.RI [ grep_options ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.I pattern
.IR file "..."
.br
.B xzegrep
.RB ...
.br
.B xzfgrep
.RB ...
.br
.B lzgrep
.RB ...
.br
.B lzegrep
.RB ...
.br
.B lzfgrep
.RB ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xzgrep
invokes
.BR grep (1)
on
.I files
which may be either uncompressed or compressed with
.BR xz (1),
.BR lzma (1),
.BR gzip (1),
or
.BR bzip2 (1).
All options specified are passed directly to
.BR grep (1).
.PP
If no
.I file
is specified, then standard input is decompressed if necessary
and fed to
.BR grep (1).
When reading from standard input,
.BR gzip (1)
and
.BR bzip2 (1)
compressed files are not supported.
.PP
If
.B xzgrep
is invoked as
.B xzegrep
or
.B xzfgrep
then
.BR egrep (1)
or
.BR fgrep (1)
is used instead of
.BR grep (1).
The same applies to names
.BR lzgrep ,
.BR lzegrep ,
and
.BR lzfgrep ,
which are provided for backward compatibility with LZMA Utils.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GREP
If the
.B GREP
environment variable is set,
.B xzgrep
uses it instead of
.BR grep (1),
.BR egrep (1),
or
.BR fgrep (1).

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	compress/xz
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grep (1),
.BR xz (1),
.BR gzip (1),
.BR bzip2 (1),
.BR zgrep (1)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://tukaani.org/xz/xz-5.0.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://tukaani.org/xz/.
