'\" te
.TH zipnote 1 "v3.0 of 8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
zipnote \- write the comments in zipfile to stdout, edit comments and rename files in zipfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.I zipnote
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-b\ path ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-L ]
zipfile

.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +13
.ti -13
zipfile  Zipfile to read comments from or edit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w
Write comments to a zipfile from stdin (see below).
.TP
.BI \-b\ \fRpath
Use path for the temporary zip file.
.TP
.BI \-h
Show a short help.
.TP
.BI \-v
Show version information.
.TP
.BI \-L
Show software license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I zipnote
writes the comments in a zipfile to stdout.  This is the default mode.  A second mode
allows updating the comments in a zipfile as well as allows changing the names
of the files in the zipfile.  These modes are described below.

.SH EXAMPLES
To write all comments in a zipfile to stdout use for example
.LP
.nf
     zipnote foo.zip > foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
This writes all comments in the zipfile
.I foo.zip
to the file
.I foo.tmp
in a specific format.

.LP
If desired, this file can then be edited to change the comments and then used
to update the zipfile.
.LP
.nf
     zipnote -w foo.zip < foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
The names of the files in the zipfile can also be changed in this way.  This is done by
following lines like
.nf
     "@ name"
.fi
in the created temporary file (called
.I foo.tmp
here) with lines like
.nf
     "@=newname"
.fi
and then using the -w option as above.

.SH BUGS
The temporary file format is rather specific and zipnote is rather picky about it.
It should be easier to change file names in a script.

Does not yet support large (> 2 GB) or split archives.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	compress/zip
=
Stability	Committed
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
zip(1), unzip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Info-ZIP


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/src/zip30.tgz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.info-zip.org/Zip.html.
