'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_slist_append 3 "19 Jun 2003" "libcurl 7.10.4" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_slist_append - add a string to an slist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "struct curl_slist *curl_slist_append(struct curl_slist *" list,
.BI "const char * "string ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
curl_slist_append() appends a specified string to a linked list of
strings. The existing \fIlist\fP should be passed as the first argument while
the new list is returned from this function. The specified \fIstring\fP has
been appended when this function returns. curl_slist_append() copies the
string.

The list should be freed again (after usage) with
\fBcurl_slist_free_all(3)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A null pointer is returned if anything went wrong, otherwise the new list
pointer is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
 CURL handle;
 struct curl_slist *slist=NULL;

 slist = curl_slist_append(slist, "pragma:");
 curl_easy_setopt(handle, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, slist);

 curl_easy_perform(handle);

 curl_slist_free_all(slist); /* free the list again */
.fi

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_slist_free_all "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
