'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_IPRESOLVE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_IPRESOLVE \- specify which IP protocol version to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_IPRESOLVE, long resolve);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Allows an application to select what kind of IP addresses to use when
resolving host names. This is only interesting when using host names that
resolve addresses using more than one version of IP. The allowed values are:
.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_WHATEVER
Default, resolves addresses to all IP versions that your system allows.
.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_V4
Resolve to IPv4 addresses.
.IP CURL_IPRESOLVE_V6
Resolve to IPv6 addresses.
.SH DEFAULT
CURL_IPRESOLVE_WHATEVER
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Always
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), " CURLOPT_SSLVERSION "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
