'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_SOCKETDATA 3 "3 Nov 2014" "libcurl 7.39.0" "curl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_SOCKETDATA \- custom pointer passed to the socket callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_SOCKETDATA, void *pointer);
.SH DESCRIPTION
A data \fIpointer\fP to pass to the socket callback set with the
\fICURLMOPT_SOCKETFUNCTION(3)\fP option.

This pointer will not be touched by libcurl but will only be passed in to the
socket callbacks's \fBuserp\fP argument.
.SH DEFAULT
NULL
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.4
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_SOCKETFUNCTION "(3), " curl_multi_socket_action "(3), "
.BR CURLMOPT_TIMERFUNCTION "(3) "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
