'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_unescape 3 "22 March 2001" "libcurl 7.7" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_unescape - URL decodes the given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *curl_unescape( char *" url ", int "length " );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Obsolete function. Use \fIcurl_easy_unescape(3)\fP instead!

This function will convert the given URL encoded input string to a "plain
string" and return that as a new allocated string. All input characters that
are URL encoded (%XX where XX is a two-digit hexadecimal number) will be
converted to their plain text versions.

If the 'length' argument is set to 0, curl_unescape() will use strlen() on the
input 'url' string to find out the size.

You must \fIcurl_free(3)\fP the returned string when you're done with it.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Since 7.15.4, \fIcurl_easy_unescape(3)\fP should be used. This function will
be removed in a future release.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a zero terminated string or NULL if it failed.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br curl_easy_escape "(3)," curl_easy_unescape "(3)," curl_free "(3)," RFC 2396


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
