'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE \- append FTP transfer mode to URL for proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXY_TRANSFER_MODE, long enabled);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long. If the value is set to 1 (one), it tells libcurl to set the
transfer mode (binary or ASCII) for FTP transfers done via a HTTP proxy, by
appending ;type=a or ;type=i to the URL. Without this setting, or it being set
to 0 (zero, the default), \fICURLOPT_TRANSFERTEXT(3)\fP has no effect when
doing FTP via a proxy. Beware that not all proxies support this feature.
.SH DEFAULT
0, disabled
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP over proxy
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.18.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if the
enabled value is not supported.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CURLOPT_HTTPPROXYTUNNEL "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
