'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_formfree 3 "6 April 2001" "libcurl 7.7.1" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_formfree - free a previously build multipart/formdata HTTP POST chain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "void curl_formfree(struct curl_httppost *" form);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
curl_formfree() is used to clean up data previously built/appended with
\fIcurl_formadd(3)\fP. This must be called when the data has been used, which
typically means after \fIcurl_easy_perform(3)\fP has been called.

The pointer to free is the same pointer you passed to the
\fBCURLOPT_HTTPPOST(3)\fP option, which is the \fIfirstitem\fP pointer from
the \fIcurl_formadd(3)\fP invoke(s).

\fBform\fP is the pointer as returned from a previous call to
\fIcurl_formadd(3)\fP and may be NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
None

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_formadd "(3) "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
