'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_TRANSFER_ENCODING 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_TRANSFER_ENCODING \- ask for HTTP Transfer Encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_TRANSFER_ENCODING, long enable);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long set to 1 to \fIenable\fP or 0 to disable.

Adds a request for compressed Transfer Encoding in the outgoing HTTP
request. If the server supports this and so desires, it can respond with the
HTTP response sent using a compressed Transfer-Encoding that will be
automatically uncompressed by libcurl on reception.

Transfer-Encoding differs slightly from the Content-Encoding you ask for with
\fBCURLOPT_ACCEPT_ENCODING(3)\fP in that a Transfer-Encoding is strictly meant
to be for the transfer and thus MUST be decoded before the data arrives in the
client. Traditionally, Transfer-Encoding has been much less used and supported
by both HTTP clients and HTTP servers.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.6
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_ACCEPT_ENCODING "(3), " CURLOPT_HTTP_TRANSFER_DECODING "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
