'\" te
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.TH IBV_CREATE_CQ 3 2006-10-31 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_create_cq, ibv_destroy_cq \- create or destroy a completion queue (CQ)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "struct ibv_cq *ibv_create_cq(struct ibv_context " "*context" ", int " "cqe" ,
.BI "                             void " "*cq_context" ,
.BI "                             struct ibv_comp_channel " "*channel" ,
.BI "                             int " "comp_vector" );
.sp
.BI "int ibv_destroy_cq(struct ibv_cq " "*cq" );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_create_cq()
creates a completion queue (CQ) with at least
.I cqe
entries for the InfiniBand device context
.I context\fR.
The pointer
.I cq_context
will be used to set user context pointer of the CQ structure. The argument
.I channel
is optional; if not NULL, the completion channel
.I channel
will be used to return completion events.  The CQ will use the
completion vector
.I comp_vector
for signaling completion events; it must be at least zero and less than
.I context\fR->num_comp_vectors.
.PP
.B ibv_destroy_cq()
destroys the CQ
.I cq\fR.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_create_cq()
returns a pointer to the CQ, or NULL if the request fails.
.PP
.B ibv_destroy_cq()
returns 0 on success, or the value of errno on failure (which indicates the failure reason).

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
.B ibv_create_cq()
may create a CQ with size greater than or equal to the requested
size. Check the cqe attribute in the returned CQ for the actual size.
.PP
.B ibv_destroy_cq()
fails if any queue pair is still associated with this CQ.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibv_resize_cq (3),
.BR ibv_req_notify_cq (3),
.BR ibv_ack_cq_events (3),
.BR ibv_create_qp (3)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP
Dotan Barak <dotanb@mellanox.co.il>


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
