'\" te
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.TH IBV_GET_DEVICE_LIST 3 2006-10-31 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_get_device_list, ibv_free_device_list \- get and release list of available InfiniBand devices
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "struct ibv_device **ibv_get_device_list(int " "*num_devices" );
.sp
.BI "void ibv_free_device_list(struct ibv_device " "**list" );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_get_device_list()
returns a NULL-terminated array of InfiniBand devices currently available.
The argument
.I num_devices
is optional; if not NULL, it is set to the number of devices returned in the array.
.PP
.B ibv_free_device_list()
frees the array of devices
.I list
returned by
.B ibv_get_device_list()\fR.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_get_device_list()
returns the array of available InfiniBand devices, or sets
.I errno
and returns NULL if the request fails. If no devices are found then
.I num_devices
is set to 0, and non-NULL is returned.
.PP
.B ibv_free_device_list()
returns no value.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B EPERM
Permission denied.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
No kernel support for RDMA.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory to complete the operation.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Client code should open all the devices it intends to use with
.B ibv_open_device()\fR before calling
.B ibv_free_device_list()\fR.
Once it frees the array with
.B ibv_free_device_list()\fR,
it will be able to use only the open devices; pointers to unopened devices will no longer be valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibv_fork_init (3),
.BR ibv_get_device_name (3),
.BR ibv_get_device_guid (3),
.BR ibv_open_device (3)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP
Dotan Barak <dotanb@mellanox.co.il>


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
