'\" te
.TH libxml 3 "12 April 2000"
.SH NAME
libxml \- library used to parse XML files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I  libxml
library is used to parse XML files. 
Its internal document representation is as close as possible to the 
.I DOM 
(Document Object Model) interface,
an API for accessing XML or HTML structured documents.
.LP
The
.I libxml
library also has a 
.IR SAX -like
interface, 
which is designed to be compatible with 
.IR expat (1).
NOTE:
.IR SAX , 
the Simple API for XML,
is a standard interface for event-based XML parsing,
developed collaboratively by the members of the XML-DEV mailing list, 
currently hosted by OASIS.
The
.I expat
library is a XML 1.0 parser written in C,
which aims to be fully conforming. 
It is currently not a validating XML processor.
.LP
The
.I libxml 
library now includes a nearly complete 
.I XPath 
implementation. 
The
.I XPath
(XML Path Language) is a language for addressing parts of an 
XML document,
designed to be used by both 
.I XSLT 
and 
.IR XPointer .
.LP
The
.I libxml 
library exports Push and Pull type parser interfaces for both XML and 
.IR html . 
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
.B /lib/libxml2.so
shared library
.TP
.B /usr/bin/xmllint
binary application for parsing XML files
.TP
.B /usr/bin/xml2-config
application for printing library configuration
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Veillard (daniel@veillard.com).
Red Hat Inc.
Manual page by Ziying Sherwin (sherwin@nlm.nih.gov),
Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications,
U.S. National Library of Medicine.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/libxml2
=
Stability	Committed
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR xmllint (1),
.IR libxslt (3),
.IR libexslt (3),
.IR xsltproc (1)
.\" end of manual page


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://xmlsoft.org/libxml2/libxml2-2.9.2.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://xmlsoft.org/.
