'\" te
.TH "read_only" 3 "27 Jul 2007" "Version 5.4.1" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
read_only \- Make your handler read_only automatically The only purpose of this handler is to return an appropriate error for any requests passed to it in a SET mode.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP * \fBnetsnmp_get_read_only_handler\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns a read_only handler that can be injected into a given handler chain. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_read_only_helper\fP (\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP *handler, \fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP *reginfo, \fBnetsnmp_agent_request_info\fP *reqinfo, \fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *requests)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_init_read_only_helper\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIinitializes the read_only helper which then registers a read_only handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Make your handler read_only automatically The only purpose of this handler is to return an appropriate error for any requests passed to it in a SET mode. 
.PP
Inserting it into your handler chain will ensure you're never asked to perform a SET request so you can ignore those error conditions. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP* netsnmp_get_read_only_handler (void)"
.PP
returns a read_only handler that can be injected into a given handler chain. 
.PP
Definition at line 29 of file read_only.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_mib_handler_s::flags, MIB_HANDLER_AUTO_NEXT, netsnmp_create_handler(), netsnmp_read_only_helper(), and NULL.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_read_only_helper(), netsnmp_register_read_only_instance(), netsnmp_register_read_only_scalar(), and netsnmp_register_read_only_table_data().
.SS "void netsnmp_init_read_only_helper (void)"
.PP
initializes the read_only helper which then registers a read_only handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use. 
.PP
Definition at line 81 of file read_only.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_get_read_only_handler(), and netsnmp_register_handler_by_name().


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/management/snmp/net-snmp/documentation
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.ntua.gr/mirror/net-snmp/OldFiles/net-snmp-5.4.x/5.4.1/net-snmp-5.4.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.net-snmp.org/.
