'\" te
.TH "leaf_handlers" 3 "27 Jul 2007" "Version 5.4.1" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
leaf_handlers \- Process individual leaf objects A group of handlers to implement individual leaf objects and instances (both scalar objects, and individual objects and instances within a table).  

.PP
.SS "Modules"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBinstance\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIProcess individual MIB instances easily. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBscalar\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIProcess scalars easily. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBscalar_group\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIProcess groups of scalars. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBwatcher\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWatch a specified variable and process it as an instance or scalar object. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Process individual leaf objects A group of handlers to implement individual leaf objects and instances (both scalar objects, and individual objects and instances within a table). 
.PP
These handlers will typically allow control to be passed down to a lower level, user-provided handler, but this is (usually) optional. 


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/management/snmp/net-snmp/documentation
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.ntua.gr/mirror/net-snmp/OldFiles/net-snmp-5.4.x/5.4.1/net-snmp-5.4.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.net-snmp.org/.
