'\" te
.TH "null_container" 3 "27 Jul 2007" "Version 5.4.1" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
null_container \- Helps you implement specialized containers.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_container\fP * \fBnetsnmp_container_get_null\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_factory\fP * \fBnetsnmp_container_get_null_factory\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_container_null_init\fP (void)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Helps you implement specialized containers. 
.PP
This is a simple container that doesn't actually contain anything. All the methods simply log a debug message and return.
.PP
The original intent for this container is as a wrapper for a specialized container. Implement the functions you need, create a null_container, and override the default functions with your specialized versions.
.PP
You can use the 'container:null' debug token to see what functions are being called, to help determine if you need to implement them. 


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/management/snmp/net-snmp/documentation
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.ntua.gr/mirror/net-snmp/OldFiles/net-snmp-5.4.x/5.4.1/net-snmp-5.4.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.net-snmp.org/.
