'\" te
.TH "RDMA_SET_OPTION" 3 "2007-08-06" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_set_option \- Set communication options for an rdma_cm_id.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "int" rdma_set_option
.BI "(struct rdma_cm_id *" id ","
.BI "int " level ","
.BI "int " optname ","
.BI "void *" optval ","
.BI "size_t " optlen ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "id" 12
RDMA identifier.
.IP "level" 12
Protocol level of the option to set.  Currently level RDMA_OPTION_ID is supported.
.IP "optname" 12
Name of the option, relative to the level, to set.  The only supported option isRDMA_OPTION_ID_REUSEADDR for level RDMA_OPTION_ID.
.IP "optval" 12
Reference to the option data.  The data is dependent on the level and optname.  For the option RDMA_OPTION_ID_REUSEADDR, an integer is passed.
.IP "optlen" 12
The size of the %optval buffer.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Sets communication options for an rdma_cm_id.  This call is used to override
the default system settings.
.sp
The RDMA_OPTION_ID_REUSEADDR option can be used to enable or
disable REUSEADDR option for a CMID. A value of 0 disables
the option and a non-zero value enables the option. This
option can be set before calling rdma_bind_addr(3) or the
rdma_resolve_addr(3) API. Listening for connection requests,
using rdma_listen(3), is not supported for CMIDs set with
this option. This option enables multiple connections to share
the same source IP Port on the active side of the connection.
.sp
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.  If an error occurs, errno will be
set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Option details may be found in the relevent header files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_create_id(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
