'\" te
.TH "RDMA_GET_DEVICES" 3 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_get_devices \- Get a list of RDMA devices currently available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "struct ibv_context **" rdma_get_devices
.BI "(int *" num_devices ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "num_devices" 12
If non-NULL, set to the number of devices returned.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Return a NULL-terminated array of opened RDMA devices.  Callers can use
this routine to allocate resources on specific RDMA devices that will be
shared across multiple rdma_cm_id's.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns an array of available RDMA devices, or NULL if the request
fails.  On failure, errno will be set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
The returned array must be released by calling rdma_free_devices.  Devices
remain opened while the librdmacm is loaded.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_free_devices(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
