'\" te
.TH "RDMA_LEAVE_MULTICAST" 3 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_leave_multicast \- Leaves a multicast group.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "int" rdma_leave_multicast
.BI "(struct rdma_cm_id *" id ","
.BI "struct sockaddr *" addr ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "id" 12
Communication identifier associated with the request.
.IP "addr" 12
Multicast address identifying the group to leave.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Leaves a multicast group and detaches an associated QP from the group.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.  If an error occurs, errno will be
set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Calling this function before a group has been fully joined results in
canceling the join operation.  Users should be aware that messages
received from the multicast group may stilled be queued for
completion processing immediately after leaving a multicast group.
Destroying an rdma_cm_id will automatically leave all multicast groups.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_join_multicast(3), rdma_destroy_qp(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
