'\" te
.TH "RDMA_BIND_ADDR" 3 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_bind_addr \- Bind an RDMA identifier to a source address.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "int" rdma_bind_addr
.BI "(struct rdma_cm_id *" id ","
.BI "struct sockaddr *" addr ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "id" 12
RDMA identifier.
.IP "addr" 12
Local address information.  Wildcard values are permitted.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Associates a source address with an rdma_cm_id.  The address may be
wildcarded.  If binding to a specific local address, the rdma_cm_id
will also be bound to a local RDMA device.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.  If an error occurs, errno will be
set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Typically, this routine is called before calling rdma_listen to bind
to a specific port number, but it may also be called on the active side
of a connection before calling rdma_resolve_addr to bind to a specific
address.
.P
If used to bind to port 0, the rdma_cm will select an available port,
which can be retrieved with rdma_get_src_port(3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_create_id(3), rdma_listen(3), rdma_resolve_addr(3), rdma_create_qp(3),
rdma_get_local_addr(3), rdma_get_src_port(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
