'\" te
.TH "RDMA_RESOLVE_ROUTE" 3 "2007-10-31" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_resolve_route \- Resolve the route information needed to establish a connection.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "int" rdma_resolve_route
.BI "(struct rdma_cm_id *" id ","
.BI "int " timeout_ms ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "id" 12
RDMA identifier.
.IP "timeout_ms" 12
Time to wait for resolution to complete.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Resolves an RDMA route to the destination address in order to establish
a connection.  The destination address must have already been resolved
by calling rdma_resolve_addr.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.  If an error occurs, errno will be
set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
This is called on the client side of a connection after calling
rdma_resolve_addr, but before calling rdma_connect.
.SH "INFINIBAND SPECIFIC"
This call obtains a path record that is used by the connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_resolve_addr(3), rdma_connect(3), rdma_get_cm_event(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
