'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developers Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy \- Get a handle to the default policy object
of a given context.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.HP
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy(TSS_HCONTEXT " hContext ", TSS_HPOLICY " *phPolicy "); "
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy\fR
determines what policy is used by all of the keys in a given context.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hContext
The \fIhContext\fR parameter is the handle of the context object.
.SS phPolicy
The \fIphPolicy\fR parameter receives the handle of the default
policy object bound to the context.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success,
otherwise one of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhContext\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_GetDefaultPolicy\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing
Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Create\fR(3), \fBTspi_Context_Connect\fR(3),
\fBTspi_Context_FreeMemory\fR(3), \fBTspi_Context_Close\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
