'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Change_Auth" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME
Tspi_ChangeAuth \- change the authorization data of an entity.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_ChangeAuth(TSS_HOBJECT " hObjectToChange ", TSS_HOBJECT " hParentObject ","
.BI "                           TSS_HPOLICY " hNewPolicy " );"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_ChangeAuth \fR changes the authorization data (secret) of an entity (object) and assigns the object to the policy object. All classes using secrets provide this method for changing their authorization data.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hObjectToChange
Handle of the object to change authorization for.
.PP
.SS hParentObject
Handle of the parent object wrapping the object addressed by hObjectToChange.
.PP
.SS hNewPolicy
Handle of the policy object providing the new authorization data.
.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_ChangeAuth\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success,otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - Either \fIhObjectToChange\fR, or \fIhParentObject\fR are not a valid handle.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_ChangeAuth\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_ChangeAuthAsym\fR(3).





.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
