'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_TPM_StirRandom" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_TPM_StirRandom \- add entropy to the TPM random number generator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_TPM_StirRandom(TSS_HTPM " hTPM ", UINT32 " ulEntropyDataLength ", BYTE* " rgbEntropyData ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_StirRandom\fR adds entropy to the TPM
random number generator for the purpose of generating better random
numbers. The \fIentropy\fR variable should assigned an appropriately
seeded random number before this function is called.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hTPM
The \fIhTPM\fR parameter is used to specify the handle of the TPM
object. The command to get the TPM to test itself will be sent here.
.SS ulEntropyDataLength
The \fIulEntropyDataLength\fR parameter is the length in bytes of
the \fIrgbEntropyData\fR parameter.
.SS rgbEntropyData
The \fIrgbEntropyData\fR parameter is a pointer to the entropy data.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_StirRandom\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise
one of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhTPM\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
One or more parameters is bad.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_StirRandom\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group
Software Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_GetRandom\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
