'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Key_UnloadKey" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_Key_UnloadKey \- unload a key from the TPM
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_Key_UnloadKey(TSS_HKEY " hKey ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_Key_UnloadKey\fR unloads the key referenced
by the given key object from the TPM. This call will result in a
TPM_EvictKey operation for the specified key.


.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hKey
The \fIhKey\fR parameter is the handle of the key object to unload.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_Key_UnloadKey\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise
one of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhKey\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
One or more parameters is bad.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Key_UnloadKey\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software
Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Key_LoadKey\fR(3), \fBTspi_Key_GetPubKey\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
