'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_SetAttribData" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME
Tspi_SetAttribData \- set a non 32bit attribute of an object.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_SetAttribData(TSS_HOBJECT " hObject ", TSS_FLAG " attribFlag ","
.BI "                              TSS_FLAG    " subFlag ", UINT32   " ulAttribDataSize ","
.BI "                              BYTE*       " rgbAttribData ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribData\fR  sets the attributes associated with a given class of object that aren't UINT32. The structure and size of hte attribute data depends on the attribute.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hObject
Handle of the object where the attribute is to be set.
.PP
.SS attribFlag
Flag indicating the attribute to set.
.PP
.SS subFlag
Sub flag indicating the attribute to set
.PP
.SS ulAttribDataSize
Supplies the length (in bytes) of the rgbAttribData.
.PP
.SS rgbAttribData
Pointer to the actual data which is to be set for the specified attribute.
.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribData\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - \fIhObject\fR is an invalid parameter.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_ATTRIB_FLAG - \fIattribFlag\fR is an invalid parameter.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_ATTRIB_SUBFLAG - \fIsubFlag\fR is an invalid parameter.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_ATTRIB_DATA - \fIrgbAttribData\fR is an invalid parameter.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribData\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_GetAttribData\fR(3).


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
