'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_TPM_PcrRead" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_TPM_PcrRead \- read the value in a PCR register
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_TPM_PcrRead(TSS_HTPM " hTPM ",              UINT32 " ulPcrIndex ","
.BI "                            UINT32*  " pulPcrValueLength ", BYTE** " prgbPcrValue ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_PcrRead\fR reads a PCR register to find
the current values.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hTPM
The \fIhTPM\fR parameter is used to specify the handle of the TPM
object. The command to get the TPM to test itself will be sent here.
.SS ulPcrIndex
The \fIulPcrIndex\fR parameter is the index of the PCR to read.
.SS pulPcrValueLength
The \fIpulPcrValueLength\fR parameter receives the length in bytes
of the \fIprgbPcrValue\fR parameter.
.SS prgbPcrValue
The \fIprgbPcrValue\fR parameter receives a pointer to the memory
block containing the PCR data.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_PcrRead\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one
of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhTPM\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
One or more parameters is bad.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_PcrRead\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software
Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_PcrExtend\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
