'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME
Tspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex\- select a PCR index inside a PCR composite object.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex(TSS_HPCRS " hPcrComposite ", UINT32 " ulPcrIndex ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex\fR selects a PCR index inside a PCR composite object. The PCR composite object must be created withthe function Tspi_Context_CreateObject(). An exampled for the usage is the selection of PCR registeres before calling Tspi_TPM_Quote().
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hPcrComposite
Handle of the PCR composite object instance where the index should be selected.
.PP
.SS ulPcrIndex
This parameter indicates the index of the PCR to select.
.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - Either \fIhPcrComposite\fR or \fIulPcrIndex\fR is an invalid handle.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_PcrComposite_SelectPcrIndex\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_Quote\fR(3), \fBTspi_PcrComposite_SetPcrValue\fR(3), \fBTspi_PcrComposite_GetPcrValue\fR(3).




.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
