'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH TIMEZONE 4 "5 Jul 2012" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
TIMEZONE \- set default system time zone and locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/TIMEZONE\fR 
\fB/etc/default/init\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/TIMEZONE\fR is a symbolic link to \fB/etc/default/init\fR (see \fBinit\fR(1M)). It sets up to 20 environment variables from \fB/etc/default/init\fR, including the time zone environment variable \fBTZ\fR.
.sp
.LP
The format of the file is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIVAR\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fIVAR\fR is a timezone environment variable and \fIvalue\fR is the value assigned to the variable. \fIvalue\fR can be enclosed in double quotes (\fB"\fR) or single quotes (\fB\&'\fR). The double or single quotes cannot be part of the value. 
.sp
.LP
With the transition to localtime-based timezones, \fB$TZ\fR values are connected with the \fBsvc:/system/timezone\fR service as well as the \fBsvc:/system/environment:init\fR service, replacing \fB/etc/default/init\fR.  You must have \fBlocaltime\fR set in order for the timezone service to function properly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinit\fR(1M), \fBrtc\fR(1M), \fBctime\fR(3C), \fBenviron\fR(5) 
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When changing the \fBTZ\fR setting on x86 systems, you must make a corresponding change to the \fB/etc/rtc_config\fR file to account for the new timezone setting. This can be accomplished by executing the following commands, followed by a reboot, to make the changes take effect:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# rtc \fB-z\fR \fIzone-name\fR
# rtc \fB-c\fR
 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fIzone-name\fR is the same name as the \fBTZ\fR variable setting. 
.sp
.LP
See \fBrtc\fR(1M) for information on the \fBrtc\fR command.
