'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH \- ignore Content-Length in HTTP response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH,
                          long ignore);
.SH DESCRIPTION
If \fIignore\fP is set to 1, ignore the Content-Length header in the HTTP
response. This is useful for Apache 1.x (and similar servers) which will
report incorrect content length for files over 2 gigabytes. If this option is
used, curl will not be able to accurately report progress, and will simply
stop the download when the server ends the connection.

Only use this option if strictly necessary.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.14.1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_HTTP_VERSION "(3), " CURLOPT_MAXFILESIZE_LARGE "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
