'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI \- set RTSP stream URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_RTSP_STREAM_URI, char *URI);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the stream \fIURI\fP to operate on by passing a char * . For example, a
single session may be controlling \fIrtsp://foo/twister/audio\fP and
\fIrtsp://foo/twister/video\fP and the application can switch to the
appropriate stream using this option. If unset, libcurl will default to
operating on generic server options by passing '*' in the place of the RTSP
Stream URI. This option is distinct from \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP. When working
with RTSP, the \fICURLOPT_STREAM_URI(3)\fP indicates what URL to send to the
server in the request header while the \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP indicates where to
make the connection to.  (e.g. the \fICURLOPT_URL(3)\fP for the above examples
might be set to \fIrtsp://foo/twister\fP
.SH DEFAULT
'*'
.SH PROTOCOLS
RTSP
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.20.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_OUT_OF_MEMORY if there was insufficient heap space.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_RTSP_REQUEST "(3), " CURLOPT_RTSP_TRANSPORT "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
