'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_global_cleanup 3 "17 Feb 2006" "libcurl 7.8" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_global_cleanup - global libcurl cleanup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "void curl_global_cleanup(void);"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function releases resources acquired by \fBcurl_global_init(3)\fP.

You should call \fIcurl_global_cleanup(3)\fP once for each call you make to
\fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP, after you are done using libcurl.

\fBThis function is not thread safe.\fP You must not call it when any other
thread in the program (i.e. a thread sharing the same memory) is running.
This doesn't just mean no other thread that is using libcurl.  Because
\fBcurl_global_cleanup(3)\fP calls functions of other libraries that are
similarly thread unsafe, it could conflict with any other thread that uses
these other libraries.

See the description in \fBlibcurl(3)\fP of global environment requirements for
details of how to use this function.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_global_init "(3), "
.BR libcurl "(3), "



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
