'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_global_init_mem 3 "10 May 2004" "libcurl 7.12.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_global_init_mem - Global libcurl initialisation with memory callbacks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.nf
.B "CURLcode curl_global_init_mem(long " flags,
.B " curl_malloc_callback "m,
.B " curl_free_callback "f,
.B " curl_realloc_callback "r,
.B " curl_strdup_callback "s,
.B " curl_calloc_callback "c ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function works exactly as \fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP with one addition: it
allows the application to set callbacks to replace the otherwise used internal
memory functions.

This man page only adds documentation for the callbacks, see the
\fIcurl_global_init(3)\fP man page for all the rest. When you use this
function, all callback arguments must be set to valid function pointers.

The prototypes for the given callbacks should match these:
.IP "void *malloc_callback(size_t size);"
To replace malloc()
.IP "void free_callback(void *ptr);"
To replace free()
.IP "void *realloc_callback(void *ptr, size_t size);"
To replace realloc()
.IP "char *strdup_callback(const char *str);"
To replace strdup()
.IP "void *calloc_callback(size_t nmemb, size_t size);"
To replace calloc()
.SH "CAUTION"
Manipulating these gives considerable powers to the application to severely
screw things up for libcurl. Take care!

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_global_init "(3), "
.BR curl_global_cleanup "(3), "



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
