'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH 3 "19 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH \- set HTTP proxy authentication methods to try
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_PROXYAUTH, long bitmask);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long as parameter, which is set to a bitmask, to tell libcurl which
HTTP authentication method(s) you want it to use for your proxy
authentication.  If more than one bit is set, libcurl will first query the
site to see what authentication methods it supports and then pick the best one
you allow it to use. For some methods, this will induce an extra network
round-trip. Set the actual name and password with the
\fICURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD(3)\fP option.

The bitmask can be constructed by or'ing together the bits fully listed and
described in the \fICURLOPT_HTTPAUTH(3)\fP man page.
.SH DEFAULT
CURLAUTH_BASIC
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.10.7
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not, or
CURLE_NOT_BUILT_IN if the bitmask specified no supported authentication
methods.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_PROXY "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYTYPE "(3), "
.BR CURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD "(3), " CURLOPT_PROXYPORT "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
