'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_cleanup 3 "1 March 2002" "libcurl 7.9.5" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_cleanup - close down a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "CURLMcode curl_multi_cleanup( CURLM *multi_handle );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cleans up and removes a whole multi stack. It does not free or touch any
individual easy handles in any way - they still need to be closed
individually, using the usual \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP way. The order of
cleaning up should be:

1 - \fIcurl_multi_remove_handle(3)\fP before any easy handles are cleaned up

2 - \fIcurl_easy_cleanup(3)\fP can now be called independently since the easy
handle is no longer connected to the multi handle

3 - \fIcurl_multi_cleanup(3)\fP should be called when all easy handles are
removed
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code. On success,
CURLM_OK is returned.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_init "(3)," curl_easy_cleanup "(3)," curl_easy_init "(3)"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
