'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_multi_remove_handle 3 "6 March 2002" "libcurl 7.9.5" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_multi_remove_handle - remove an easy handle from a multi session
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_remove_handle(CURLM *multi_handle, CURL *easy_handle);
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Removes a given \fIeasy_handle\fI from the \fImulti_handle\fI. This will make
the specified easy handle be removed from this multi handle's control.

When the easy handle has been removed from a multi stack, it is again
perfectly legal to invoke \fIcurl_easy_perform(3)\fP on this easy handle.

Removing an easy handle while being used is perfectly legal and will
effectively halt the transfer in progress involving that easy handle. All
other easy handles and transfers will remain unaffected.
.SH RETURN VALUE
CURLMcode type, general libcurl multi interface error code.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_multi_cleanup "(3)," curl_multi_init "(3), "
.BR curl_multi_add_handle "(3) "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
