'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS 3 "4 Nov 2014" "libcurl 7.39.0" "curl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS \- max simultaneously open connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS, long amount);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long for the \fBamount\fP. The set number will be used as the maximum
number of simultaneously open connections in total using this multi
handle. For each new session, libcurl will open a new connection up to the
limit set by \fICURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP. When the limit is
reached, the sessions will be pending until there are available
connections. If \fICURLMOPT_PIPELINING(3)\fP is enabled, libcurl will try to
pipeline if the host is capable of it.
.SH DEFAULT
The default value is 0, which means that there is no limit. It is then simply
controlled by the number of easy handles added.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), " CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
