'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_multi_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS \- set max number of connections to a single host
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLMcode curl_multi_setopt(CURLM *handle, CURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS, long max);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a long to indicate \fBmax\fP. The set number will be used as the maximum
amount of simultaneously open connections to a single host. For each new
session to a host, libcurl will open a new connection up to the limit set by
\fICURLMOPT_MAX_HOST_CONNECTIONS(3)\fP. When the limit is reached, the
sessions will be pending until a connection becomes available. If
\fICURLMOPT_PIPELINING(3)\fP is enabled, libcurl will try to pipeline if the
host is capable of it.

The default \fBmax\fP value is 0, unlimited.  However, for backwards
compatibility, setting it to 0 when \fICURLMOPT_PIPELINING(3)\fP is 1 will not
be treated as unlimited. Instead it will open only 1 connection and try to
pipeline on it.
.SH DEFAULT
0
.SH PROTOCOLS
HTTP(S)
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.30.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLM_OK if the option is supported, and CURLM_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLMOPT_MAXCONNECTS "(3), " CURLMOPT_MAX_TOTAL_CONNECTIONS "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
