'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE 3 "17 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE \- set size of the input file to send off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_INFILESIZE_LARGE,
                          curl_off_t filesize);
.SH DESCRIPTION
When uploading a file to a remote site, \fIfilesize\fP should be used to tell
libcurl what the expected size of the input file is. This value must be passed
as a \fBcurl_off_t\fP. 

For uploading using SCP, this option or \fICURLOPT_INFILESIZE(3)\fP is
mandatory.

To unset this value again, set it to -1.

When sending emails using SMTP, this command can be used to specify the
optional SIZE parameter for the MAIL FROM command.

This option does not limit how much data libcurl will actually send, as that
is controlled entirely by what the read callback returns, but telling one
value and sending a different amount may lead to errors.
.SH DEFAULT
Unset
.SH PROTOCOLS
Many
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
SMTP support added in 7.23.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_INFILESIZE "(3), " CURLOPT_UPLOAD "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
