'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH curl_easy_escape 3 "7 April 2006" "libcurl 7.15.4" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_easy_escape - URL encodes the given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *curl_easy_escape( CURL *" curl ", char *" string ", int "length " );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function converts the given input \fBstring\fP to an URL encoded string
and returns that as a new allocated string. All input characters that are not
a-z, A-Z, 0-9, '-', '.', '_' or '~' are converted to their "URL escaped"
version (%NN where NN is a two-digit hexadecimal number).

If the \fBlength\fP argument is set to 0 (zero), \fIcurl_easy_escape(3)\fP
uses strlen() on the input \fBurl\fP to find out the size.

You must \fIcurl_free(3)\fP the returned string when you're done with it.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.15.4 and replaces the old \fIcurl_escape(3)\fP function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a zero terminated string or NULL if it failed.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  char *output = curl_easy_escape(curl, "data to convert", 15);
  if(output) {
    printf("Encoded: %s\n", output);
    curl_free(output);
  }
}}
.fi

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_easy_unescape "(3), " curl_free "(3), " RFC 3986


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
