'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_version 3 "5 March 2001" "libcurl 7.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_version - returns the libcurl version string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *curl_version( );"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns a human readable string with the version number of libcurl and some of
its important components (like OpenSSL version).

We recommend using \fIcurl_version_info(3)\fP instead!
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a zero terminated string. The string resides in a statically
allocated buffer and must not be freed by the caller.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_version_info "(3)"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
