'\" te
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at http://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_CLOSESOCKETFUNCTION 3 "16 Jun 2014" "libcurl 7.37.0" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_CLOSESOCKETFUNCTION \- callback to socket close replacement function
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <curl/curl.h>

int closesocket_callback(void *clientp, curl_socket_t item);

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_CLOSESOCKETFUNCTION, closesocket_callback);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to your callback function, which should match the prototype
shown above.

This callback function gets called by libcurl instead of the \fIclose(3)\fP or
\fIclosesocket(3)\fP call when sockets are closed (not for any other file
descriptors). This is pretty much the reverse to the
\fICURLOPT_OPENSOCKETFUNCTION(3)\fP option. Return 0 to signal success and 1
if there was an error.

The \fIclientp\fP pointer is set with
\fICURLOPT_CLOSESOCKETDATA(3)\fP. \fIitem\fP is the socket libcurl wants to be
closed.
.SH DEFAULT
By default libcurl uses the standard socket close function.
.SH PROTOCOLS
All
.SH EXAMPLE
TODO
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.21.7
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	web/curl
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_CLOSESOCKETDATA "(3), " CURLOPT_OPENSOCKETFUNCTION "(3), "


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.40.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://curl.haxx.se/.
