'\" te
'\" te

.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.TH IBV_GID_REACHABLE 3 2012-08-08 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_gid_reachable \- will contact the SA to do a path record lookup from the
device,port specified by 'context','port' to the remote 'gid_p'.  It finds the
status of the remote GID (reachable or unreachable).
.sp
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "int ibv_gid_reachable(struct ibv_context *context, uint port,
.BI "union ibv_gid *gid_p, int timeout)
.if
.TP
.B gid_p
A pointer to the gid to check
.TP
.B context
A device context obtained from a call to ibv_open_device().
This identifies the device to use in order to contact the
remote 'gid_p'.
.TP
.B port
Specifies the port on the device associated with 'context'.
If '0' then the implementation will choose a port.
.TP
.B timeout
It is currently set to '0' and reserved for future enhancement.
ibv_gid_reachable() will block until a response
(success, fail or no path found) is obtained.
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_gid_reachable() will contact the SA from the device,port specified
by 'context','port' to the remote 'gid_p'.
It finds the status of the remote 'gid_p' (reachable or not).
.sp
.B ibv_gid_reachable()
returns 0 on success, -1 on failure with errno set as follows:
.sp
.TP
.in +10
.B EINVAL \fR\fR\fR Invalid argument.
.in -10
.TP
.in +10
.B ENXIO \fR\fR\fR No Path Found
.in -10
.TP
.in +10
.B EIO \fR\fR\fR I/O Error
.in -10
.TP
.in +10
.B ENOMEM \fR\fR\fR Could not allocate kernel resource
.in -10
.in +23
required to perform the lookup.
.in -23
.TP
.in +10
.B EINTR \fR\fR\fR Abort due to interrupted system call.
.in -10
.sp
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_gid_reachable()
returns 0 on success, and \-1 on error.
.sp

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
.TP


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
