'\" te
.TH PCRE_STUDY 3 " 24 June 2012" "PCRE 8.30"
.SH NAME
PCRE - Perl-compatible regular expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.rs
.sp
.B #include <pcre.h>
.PP
.nf
.B pcre_extra *pcre_study(const pcre *\fIcode\fP, int \fIoptions\fP,
.B "     const char **\fIerrptr\fP);"
.sp
.B pcre16_extra *pcre16_study(const pcre16 *\fIcode\fP, int \fIoptions\fP,
.B "     const char **\fIerrptr\fP);"
.sp
.B pcre32_extra *pcre32_study(const pcre32 *\fIcode\fP, int \fIoptions\fP,
.B "     const char **\fIerrptr\fP);"
.fi
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.rs
.sp
This function studies a compiled pattern, to see if additional information can
be extracted that might speed up matching. Its arguments are:
.sp
  \fIcode\fP       A compiled regular expression
  \fIoptions\fP    Options for \fBpcre[16|32]_study()\fP
  \fIerrptr\fP     Where to put an error message
.sp
If the function succeeds, it returns a value that can be passed to
\fBpcre[16|32]_exec()\fP or \fBpcre[16|32]_dfa_exec()\fP via their \fIextra\fP
arguments.
.P
If the function returns NULL, either it could not find any additional
information, or there was an error. You can tell the difference by looking at
the error value. It is NULL in first case.
.P
The only option is PCRE_STUDY_JIT_COMPILE. It requests just-in-time compilation
if possible. If PCRE has been compiled without JIT support, this option is
ignored. See the
.\" HREF
\fBpcrejit\fP
.\"
page for further details.
.P
There is a complete description of the PCRE native API in the
.\" HREF
\fBpcreapi\fP
.\"
page and a description of the POSIX API in the
.\" HREF
\fBpcreposix\fP
.\"
page.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/pcre
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/pcre/files/pcre/8.37/pcre-8.37.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://pcre.org/.
