'\" te
.TH "RDMA_CREATE_EVENT_CHANNEL" 3 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_create_event_channel \- Open a channel used to report communication events.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "struct rdma_event_channel *" rdma_create_event_channel
.BI "(" void ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "void" 12
no arguments
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Asynchronous events are reported to users through event channels.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns a pointer to the created event channel, or NULL if the request
fails.  On failure, errno will be set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Event channels are used to direct all events on an rdma_cm_id.  For many
clients, a single event channel may be sufficient, however, when managing
a large number of connections or cm_id's, users may find it useful to direct
events for different cm_id's to different channels for processing.
.P
All created event channels must be destroyed by calling
rdma_destroy_event_channel.  Users should call rdma_get_cm_event to
retrieve events on an event channel.
.P
Each event channel is mapped to a file descriptor.  The associated file
descriptor can be used and manipulated like any other fd to change its
behavior.  Users may make the fd non-blocking, poll or select the fd, etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_cm(7), rdma_get_cm_event(3), rdma_destroy_event_channel(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
