'\" te
.TH "RDMA_NOTIFY" 3 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "Librdmacm Programmer's Manual" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rdma_notify \- Notifies the librdmacm of an asynchronous event.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/rdma_cma.h>"
.P
.B "int" rdma_notify
.BI "(struct rdma_cm_id *" id ","
.BI "enum ibv_event_type " event ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "id" 12
RDMA identifier.
.IP "event" 12
Asynchronous event.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Used to notify the librdmacm of asynchronous events that have occurred
on a QP associated with the rdma_cm_id.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.  If an error occurs, errno will be
set to indicate the failure reason.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Asynchronous events that occur on a QP are reported through the user's
device event handler.  This routine is used to notify the librdmacm of
communication events.  In most cases, use of this routine is not
necessary, however if connection establishment is done out of band
(such as done through Infiniband), it's possible to receive data on a
QP that is not yet considered connected.  This routine forces the
connection into an established state in this case in order to handle
the rare situation where the connection never forms on its own.
Calling this routine ensures the delivery of the RDMA_CM_EVENT_ESTABLISHED
event to the application.
Events that should be reported to the CM are: IB_EVENT_COMM_EST.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_connect(3), rdma_accept(3), rdma_listen(3)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
