'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 International Business Machines Corporation
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions" 3 "2007-12-13" "TSS 1.2"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions \- set restrictions on use of delegated Certified Migratable Keys
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions(TSS_HTPM " hTPM ", TSS_CMK_DELEGATE " CmkDelegate ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions\fR is used to set restrictions on the delegated use of Certified Migratable Keys (CMKs).  Use of this command cannot itself be delegated.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hTPM
The \fIhTPM\fR parameter is used to specify the handle of the TPM object.
.SS CmkDelegate
The \fICmkDelegate\fR parameter is a bitmask describing the kinds of CMKs that can be used in a delegated auth session.  Each bit represents a type of key.  If the bit of a key type is set, then the CMK can be used in a delegated authorization session, otherwise use of that key will result in a TPM_E_INVALID_KEYUSAGE return code from the TPM.

The possible values of \fICmkDelegate\fR are any combination of the following flags logically OR'd together:

.TP
.SM "TSS_CMK_DELEGATE_SIGNING"
Allow use of signing keys.

.TP
.SM "TSS_CMK_DELEGATE_STORAGE"
Allow use of storage keys.

.TP
.SM "TSS_CMK_DELEGATE_BIND"
Allow use of binding keys.

.TP
.SM "TSS_CMK_DELEGATE_LEGACY"
Allow use of legacy keys.

.TP
.SM "TSS_CMK_DELEGATE_MIGRATE"
Allow use of migratable keys.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the
following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhTPM\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_CMKSetRestrictions\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group
Software Specification version 1.2 Errata A


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_CMKApproveMA\fR(3), \fBTspi_TPM_CMKCreateTicket\fR(3), \fBTspi_Key_CMKCreateBlob\fR(3)



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
