'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_TPM_Quote" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME
Tspi_TPM_Quote \- retreive a signed set of PCR values.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_TPM_Quote(TSS_HTPM  " hTPM ",          TSS_HKEY        " hIdentKey ","
.BI "                          TSS_HPCRS " hPcrComposite ", TSS_VALIDATION* " pValidationData ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_Quote\fR destroys a context by passing in the handle to that context.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hTPM
Handle of the TPM object.
.PP
.SS hIdentKey
Handle of the signature key object.
.PP
.SS hPcrComposite
Handle of the PCR composite object
.PP
.SS pValidationData
Validation data structure
[IN] Provide externalData information required to compute the signature.
[OUT] On successful completion of the command, the structure provides a buffer containing the validation data and a buffer containing the data the validation data was computed form.
.PP 

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_Quote\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - \fIhTPM\fR, \fIhIdentKey\fR or \fIhPcrComposite\fR is not a valid handle.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_TPM_Quote\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fB(none)\fR.





.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
