'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Key_CreateKey" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME
Tspi_Key_CreateKey \- create a key pair within the TPM, wrapping it with the key addressed by hWrappingKey.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_Key_CreateKey(TSS_HKEY " hKey ", TSS_HKEY " hWrappingKey ", TSS_HPCRS " hPcrComposite ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTSS_Key_CreateKey\fR  
calls the TPM command TPM_CreateWrapKey. If hPcrComposite is not set to NULL, the created key blob is bound to this PCR values. The key object addressed by hKey must contain the key information needed for the creation. 
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hKey
The handle of the key object to create.
.PP
.SS hWrappingKey
The handle to the key used to wrap the newly created key.
.PP
.SS hPcrComposite
The handle to an object, if the value of the handle doesn't equal NULL, the newly create key will be bound ot the PCR values described with this object.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_Key_CreateKey\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - Either \fIhKey\fR, \fIhWrappingKey\fR or \fIhPcrComposite\fR are invalid parameters.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Key_CreateKey\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Key_WrapKey\fR(3), \fBTspi_Key_CertifyKey\fR(3), \fBTspi_Key_RegisterKey\fR(3).


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
