'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Context_FreeMemory" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developers Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_Context_FreeMemory \- Free allocated memory for a given context.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.br
.HP
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_Context_FreeMemory(TSS_HCONTEXT " hContext ", BYTE* " rgbMemory ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_FreeMemory\fR frees memory allocated by the TSS Service Provider on a per-context basis.
This should be used before Tspi_Context_Close is called, to avoid memory leaks.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hContext
The \fIhContext\fR parameter is the handle to the local context.
.SS rgbMemory
The \fIrgbMemory\fR parameter is a pointer to the memory block to
be freed. If this is NULL, all memory blocks bound to the context are freed.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_FreeMemory\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise
one of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhContext\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_FreeMemory\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software
Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Create\fR(3), \fBTspi_Context_Close\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
