'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Megan Schneider based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_SetAttribUint32" 3 "2004-05-25" "TSS 1.1"
.ce 1
TCG Software Stack Developers Reference
.SH NAME
Tspi_SetAttribUint32 \- set a 32bit attribute associated with a given class or object
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_SetAttribUint32(TSS_HOBJECT " hObject ", TSS_FLAG " attribFlag ","
.BI "                                TSS_FLAG    " subFlag ", UINT32   " ulAttrib "); "
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribUint32\fR sets a uint32 attribute
associated with a given class or object. In order to use this
command, you must first create an object and then find the attributes
you wish to set.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hObject
The \fIhObject\fR parameter is the handle of the object or class
whose attributes are being set. Note that this is any object handler
- context, policy, TPM, key, hash, etc.
.SS attribFlag
The \fIattribFlag\fR parameter indicates the specific attribute to be set.
.SS subFlag
The \fIsubFlag\fR parameter also indicates the specific attribute to be set.
.SS ulAttrib
The \fIulAttrib\fR parameter is the value that the specified attribute
will be set to.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribUint32\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise
one of the following values is returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE
\fIhObject\fR is not a valid handle.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_ATTRIB_FLAG
\fIattribFlag\fR is incorrect.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_ATTRIB_SUBFLAG
\fIsubFlag\fR is incorrect.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_ATTRIB_DATA
\fIulAttrib\fR is incorrect.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal SW error has been detected.

.TP
.SM TSS_E_BAD_PARAMETER
One or more parameters is bad.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_SetAttribUint32\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group
Software Specification version 1.1 Golden


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_GetAttribUint32\fR(3), \fBTspi_SetAttribData\fR(3),
\fBTspi_GetAttribData\fR(3).



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
