'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines Corporation
.\" Written by Kathy Robertson based on the Trusted Computing Group Software Stack Specification Version 1.1 Golden
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "Tspi_Context_Connect" 3 "2004-05-26" "TSS 1.1" "TCG Software Stack Developer's Reference"
.SH NAME.
Tspi_Context_Connect\- connect a TSP to a Core Services daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
.nf
.B #include <tss/platform.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_defines.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tcpa_struct.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_typedef.h>
.B #include <tss/tss_structs.h>
.B #include <tss/tspi.h>
.sp
.BI "TSS_RESULT Tspi_Context_Connect(TSS_HCONTEXT " hLocalContext ", UNICODE* " wszDestination ");"
.fi
.sp
.ad
.hy
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Connect\fR creates a connetion between the application and the local or remote TSS System.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.SS hLocalContext
The handle to the context to be connected.
.PP
.SS wszDestination
A null terminated unicode string which specifies  the local or remote system to which one will be connected. If \fIwszDestination\fR is NULL, the connection will be to a local TCS.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Connect\fR returns TSS_SUCCESS on success, otherwise one of the following values are returned:
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INVALID_HANDLE - \fIhLocalContext\fR is an invalid handle.
.TP
.SM TSS_E_INTERNAL_ERROR - An error occurred internal to the TSS.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Connect\fR conforms to the Trusted Computing Group Software Specification version 1.1 Golden

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	library/security/trousers
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBTspi_Context_Create\fR(3), \fBTspi_Context_Close\fR(3).




.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/0.3.6/trousers-0.3.6.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://sourceforge.net/projects/trousers/files/trousers/.
