'\" t
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2002 Keith Packard, member of The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of Keith Packard not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
.\" specific, written prior permission.  Keith Packard makes no
.\" representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It
.\" is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" KEITH PACKARD DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL KEITH PACKARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH XFIXES 3 "libXfixes 5.0.1" "X Version 11"

.SH NAME
XFixes \- Augmented versions of core protocol requests
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR\&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\&.\&. \fB\-lXfixes\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\&.\&. ]
.fi
.sp
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR\&.\&.\&. ] `pkg-config --cflags xfixes` \fIfile\fR\&.\&.\&. `pkg-config --libs xfixes` 
.fi
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xfixes.h>
.nf
.sp
Bool XFixesQueryExtension \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fIevent_base_return\fP, int *\fIerror_base_return\fP\^);
.sp
Status XFixesQueryVersion \^(\^Display *\fIdpy\fP,
	int *\fImajor_version_return\fP,
	int *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^);
.sp
void XFixesChangeSaveSet \^(\^Display *dpy,
	Window \fIwindow\fP,
	int \fImode\fP,
	int \fItarget\fP,
	int \fImap\fP);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIwindow\fP 1i
Specifies which window.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies the save set operation (SetModeInsert/SetModeDelete).
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies the target when executing the save set
(SaveSetNearest/SaveSetRoot).  In SaveSetNearest mode, the save set member
window will be reparented to the nearest window not owned by the save set
client.  In SaveSetRoot mode, the save set member window will be reparented
to the root window.
.IP \fImap\fP 1i
Specifies the map mode (SaveSetMap/SaveSetUnmap) which selects whether the
save setmember window will be mapped or unmapped during save set processing.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xfixes
is a simple library designed to interface the X Fixes
Extension.  This extension provides application with work arounds for
various limitations in the core protocol.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.B Xfixes
will remain upward compatible after the 1.0 release.
.SH AUTHORS
Keith Packard, member of the XFree86 Project, Inc. and
HP, Owen Taylor, member of the Gnome Foundation and Redhat, Inc.

.\" Begin Oracle Solaris update
.SH "ATTRIBUTES"
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
allbox;
cw(2.750000i)| cw(2.750000i)
lw(2.750000i)| lw(2.750000i).
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Availability	x11/library/libxfixes
Interface Stability	Volatile
MT-Level	See XInitThreads(3X11)
.TE
.sp
.\" End Oracle Solaris update
