'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: client.conf.man.in 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   client.conf man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH client.conf 5 "CUPS" "25 February 2006" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
client.conf \- client configuration file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIclient.conf\fR file configures the CUPS client and is 
normally located in the \fI/etc/cups\fR or \fI~/.cups\fR
directory. Each line in the file can be a configuration
directive, a blank line, or a comment. Comment lines start with
the # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
The following directives are understood by the client. Consult the
on-line help for detailed descriptions:
.TP 5
Encryption IfRequested
.TP 5
Encryption Never
.TP 5
Encryption Required
.br
Specifies the level of encryption that is required for a particular
location.
.TP 5
ServerName hostname-or-ip-address[:port]
.TP 5
ServerName /domain/socket
.br
Specifies the address and optionally the port to use when
connecting to the server

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: client.conf.man.in 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
