'\" te
.ig
Copyright (C) 1989, 1990, 2000, 2001, 2006, 2009
  Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.
.\"
.\" Skrivet av Jörgen Hägg, Lund, Sverige
.\"
.
.mso sv.tmac
.
.TH GROFF_MMSE 5 "7 February 2013" "Groff Version 1.22.2"
.
.
.SH NAMN
.
groff_mmse \- svenska mm makro för groff
.
.
.SH SYNTAX
.
.B groff
.B \-mgmse
[
.IR flaggor .\|.\|.\&
]
[
.IR filer .\|.\|.\&
]
.
.
.SH BESKRIVNING
.
.B mgmse
är en svensk variant av
.BR mgm .
Alla texter är översatta.
En A4 sida får text som är 13\~cm bred,
3.5\~cm indragning samt är 28.5\~cm hög.
Det finns stöd för brevuppställning enligt svensk standard
för vänster och högerjusterad text.
.
.LP
.B COVER
kan använda
.I se_ms
som argument.
Detta ger ett svenskt försättsblad.
Se
.BR groff_mm (5)
för övriga detaljer.
.
.
.SH BREV
.
Tillgängliga brevtyper:
.
.TP
.B ".LT SVV"
Vänsterställd löptext med adressat i position T0 (vänsterställt).
.
.TP
.B ".LT SVH"
Högerställd löptext med adressat i position T4 (passar
fönsterkuvert).
.
.LP
Följande extra LO-variabler används.
.
.TP
.BI ".LO DNAMN\ " namn
Anger dokumentets namn.
.
.TP
.BI ".LO MDAT\ " datum
Mottagarens datum, anges under
.B Ert datum:
.RB ( LetMDAT ).
.
.TP
.BI ".LO BIL\ " sträng
Anger bilaga, nummer eller sträng med
.B Bilaga
.RB ( LetBIL )
som prefix.
.
.TP
.BI ".LO KOMP\ " text
Anger kompletteringsuppgift.
.
.TP
.BI ".LO DBET\ " beteckning
Anger dokumentbeteckning eller dokumentnummer.
.
.TP
.BI ".LO BET\ " beteckning
Anger beteckning (ärendebeteckning i form av diarienummer eller liknande).
.
.TP
.BI ".LO SIDOR\ " antal
Anger totala antalet sidor och skrivs ut efter sidnumret inom
parenteser.
.
.LP
Om makrot
.B .TP
är definierat anropas det efter utskrift av brevhuvudet.
Där lägger man lämpligen in postadress och annat som brevfot.
.
.
.SH "SKRIVET AV"
.
Jörgen Hägg, Lund, Sweden <Jorgen.Hagg@axis.se>
.
.
.SH FILER
.
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/gmse.tmac
.TP
.B /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac/mm/se_*.cov
.
.
.SH "SE OCKSÅ"
.
.BR groff (1),
.BR gtroff (1),
.BR gtbl (1),
.BR gpic (1),
.BR geqn (1)
.br
.BR groff_mm (5)
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" coding: latin-1
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	text/groff
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/groff/groff-1.22.2.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/.
