'\" te
.TH sane-ricoh 5 "24 Jun 2000" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane-ricoh
.SH NAME
sane-ricoh \- SANE backend for Ricoh flatbed scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane-ricoh
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to the following Ricoh flatbed scanners:
.PP
.RS
IS50
.br
IS60
.br
.RE
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the path-name for the special device that corresponds to a
SCSI scanner. The special device name must be a generic SCSI device or a
symlink to such a device.  The program 
.IR sane-find-scanner 
helps to find out the correct device. Under Linux, such a device name
could be
.I /dev/sga
or
.IR /dev/sge ,
for example.  See sane-scsi(5) for details.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/ricoh.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-ricoh.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-ricoh.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in /etc/sane.d.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"/etc/sane.d" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_RICOH
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  Higher
debug levels increase the verbosity of the output. 

Example: 
export SANE_DEBUG_RICOH=4


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Feico W. Dillema



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
