'\" te
.TH sane-nec 5 "17 Feb 2000" "sane-backends 1.0.19" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane-nec
.SH NAME
sane-nec \- SANE backend for NEC scanners
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane-nec
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to NEC SCSI scanners.  This backend should be
considered
.B alpha-quality
software!  In the current state it is known to work with PC-IN500/4C 
scanners. Another MultiReader scanner series is not supported. PC-IN
500/4C and MultiReader scanner are only sold in Japan.(except Multi
Reader PetiScan.)

For other scanners, it may or may not work.
.PP
The backend has the following known problems:
.RS
\- ColorLineart mode is not supported.
.br
\- device name is fixed to /dev/scanner
.RE
.PP
At present,
the following scanners are known to work with this backend.
.RS
.ft CR
.nf
Vendor Product id
------ -----------
NEC    PC-IN500/4C
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sane.d/nec.conf
The backend configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-nec.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/sane/libsane-nec.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_NEC
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	image/scanner/xsane/sane-backends
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7), sane-scsi(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Kazuya Fukuda


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp2.sane-project.org/pub/sane/old-versions/sane-backends-1.0.19/sane-backends-1.0.19.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.sane-project.org/.
