'\" te
.TH fixproc "1" "16 Nov 2006" V5.4.1 "Net-SNMP"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
fixproc - Fixes a process by performing the specified action.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B fixproc
[\fI\-min n\fR]
[\fI\-max n\fR]
[\fI\-check | \-kill | \-restart | \-exist | \-fix\fR]
proc \.\.\.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Fixes a process named "proc" by performing the specified action.  The
actions can be check, kill, restart, exist, or fix.  The action is specified
on the command line or is read from a default database, which describes
the default action to take for each process.  The database format and
the meaning of each action are described below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-min n
minimum number of processes that should be running, defaults to 1
.TP
.B \-max n
maximum number of processes that should be running, defaults to 1
.TP
.B \-check
check process against database /local/etc/fixproc.conf.
.TP
.B \-kill
kill process, wait 5 seconds, kill -9 if still exist
.TP
.B \-restart
kill process, wait 5 seconds, kill -9 if still exist, then start again
.TP
.B \-exist
checks if proc exists in ps && (min <= num. of processes <= max)
.TP
.B \-fix
check process against database /local/etc/fixproc.conf. Perform defined
action, if check fails.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/management/snmp/net-snmp/documentation
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP

.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.ntua.gr/mirror/net-snmp/OldFiles/net-snmp-5.4.x/5.4.1/net-snmp-5.4.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.net-snmp.org/.
