'\" te
.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-PPDFILE 1 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-ppdfile \- Generate a PPD file for a given printer/driver combo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foomatic-ppdfile [-w] [\-d <driver>] \-p <printerid>
.br
.B foomatic-ppdfile [-A] [-P pattern]
.br
.B foomatic-ppdfile -h

.SH DESCRIPTION
The first form of the
.B foomatic-ppdfile
to compute the spooler-independent Foomatic PPD file for any valid
printer/driver combo available in the Foomatic database, both for
printing with \fBfoomatic-rip(1)\fR and for applications/clients being
able to access the printer's options.  The PPD file is returned on
standard ouput.
If the driver is not specified, the default driver is used.

.PP
The second form of the
.B foomatic-ppdfile
program will search the printer database and return either all
printer entries or those whose name and/or model information
match a regular expression.

.PP
The last form prints a help message and exits.

.SS Options
.TP 5
.BI \-d " drivername"
The (optional) driver name to use.
If the driver name is not supplied, the default or first driver in the printers
compatible driver list is used.

.TP 5
.BI \-p
printer id
The printer id.

.TP 5
.B \-w
Return a PPD file that conforms to the Microsoft Windows format
limitations.

.TP 5
.B \-A
Return all printer entries in the database.

.TP 5
.BI \-P pattern
Return all printer entries in the database which match
the regular expression.


.TP 5

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups/filter/foomatic-db-engine
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR foomatic-rip (1)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-ppdfile
returns 0 on success, 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> for the foomatic
project using output from the associated binary.

Modified and updated by Patrick Powell <\fIpapowell at astart.com\fF>.

.SH BUGS
None so far.

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  /foomatic-db-engine-3.0-20080903.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting/database/foomatic/.
