'\" te
.\" This -*- nroff -*- source file is part of foomatic.
.\"
.TH FOOMATIC-COMPILEDB 1 "2001-05-07" "Foomatic Project"
.SH NAME
foomatic-compiledb \- Compile the Foomatic printer/driver database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI foomatic-compiledb \ \fB[ \ \-t \ \fItype\fB \ \fB] \ \fB[ \ \fB\-f \ \fB]\ \fB[ \ \fB\-j \ \fIn\fB \ \fB] \ \fB[\ \ \fIdriver\fB \ \fB...\ \ \fB]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B foomatic-compiledb
generates all PPD files or Foomatic combo XML files for all possible
printer/driver combos, or only for a selected range of drivers.  It
generally should not be necessary except for people who want to
generate a set of Foomatic data files for distribution. For
configuring single printers \fBfoomatic-ppdfile(1)\fR and especially
\fBfoomatic-configure(1)\fR will automagically compute just what they
need.

.SS Options
.TP 10
.BI \-t \ type
Output file type, either ppd or xml.

.TP 10
.BI \-f
Force: Write into the destination directory even if it already exists.

.TP 10
.BI \-j \ n
n = number of work processes to run

.TP 10
.I driver ...  
only generate data files for these driver(s)


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups/filter/foomatic-db-engine
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR foomatic-ppdfile (1), foomatic-configure (1)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B foomatic-compiledb
returns 0 unless something unexpected happens.

.SH AUTHORS
Manfred Wassmann <\fImanolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de\fR> and Till Kamppeter
<\fItill.kamppeter@gmx.net\fR> for the foomatic
project using output from the associated binary.

.SH BUGS
Existing files are always conserved instead of older files being
overwritten. So deleting the destination directory (rm -rf dir) and
calling foomatic-compiledb without the -f option is recommended.

Please post bug reports on

http://lists.freestandards.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-foomatic



.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  /foomatic-db-engine-3.0-20080903.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting/database/foomatic/.
