'\" te
.TH INCLUDERES 1 "PSUtils Release 1 Patchlevel 17"
.SH NAME
includeres \- filter to include resources in a PostScript document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B includeres 
< 
.I document.ps
>
.I output.ps
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Includeres
includes resources (fonts, procsets, patterns, files, etc) in place of
.I %%IncludeResource
comments in a PostScript document. The resources are searched for in the
current directory and the system default directory under the resource name,
and with an appropriate extension.
The pipeline
.sp
.ce
extractres file.ps | includeres >out.ps
.sp
will move all resources appearing in a document to the document prologue,
removing redundant copies. The output file can then be put through page
re-arrangement filters such as
.I psnup
or 
.I pstops
safely.
.SH FILES
/builds/hudson/workspace/nightly-update/build/i386/components/psutils/build/prototype/i386/usr/share/psutils - system resource directory.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) Angus J. C. Duggan 1991-1995

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/psutils
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
psbook(1), psselect(1), pstops(1), epsffit(1), psnup(1), psresize(1), psmerge(1), fixscribeps(1), getafm(1), fixdlsrps(1), fixfmps(1), fixmacps(1), fixpsditps(1), fixpspps(1), fixtpps(1), fixwfwps(1), fixwpps(1), fixwwps(1), extractres(1), includeres(1)
.SH TRADEMARKS
.B PostScript
is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH BUGS
.I includeres
does not alter the
.I %%DocumentNeededResources
comments.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://gd.tuwien.ac.at/publishing/tex/tex-utils/psutils/psutils-p17.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://knackered.knackered.org/angus/psutils/.
