'\" te
.\"
.\" Author: Lasse Collin
.\"
.\" This file has been put into the public domain.
.\" You can do whatever you want with this file.
.\"
.TH LZMAINFO 1 "2010-09-27" "Tukaani" "XZ Utils"
.SH NAME
lzmainfo \- show information stored in the .lzma file header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lzmainfo
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RI [ file ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lzmainfo
shows information stored in the
.B .lzma
file header.
It reads the first 13 bytes from the specified
.IR file ,
decodes the header, and prints it to standard output in human
readable format.
If no
.I files
are given or
.I file
is
.BR \- ,
standard input is read.
.PP
Usually the most interesting information is
the uncompressed size and the dictionary size.
Uncompressed size can be shown only if
the file is in the non-streamed
.B .lzma
format variant.
The amount of memory required to decompress the file is
a few dozen kilobytes plus the dictionary size.
.PP
.B lzmainfo
is included in XZ Utils primarily for
backward compatibility with LZMA Utils.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
All is good.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.SH BUGS
.B lzmainfo
uses
.B MB
while the correct suffix would be
.B MiB
(2^20 bytes).
This is to keep the output compatible with LZMA Utils.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	compress/xz
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xz (1)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://tukaani.org/xz/xz-5.0.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://tukaani.org/xz/.
