'\" te
.TH "MCKEY" 1 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "librdmacm" librdmacm
.SH NAME
mckey \- RDMA CM multicast setup and simple data transfer test.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fImckey\fR -m multicast_address [-s] [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-p port_space]
\fImckey\fR -m multicast_address -s [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-p port_space]
\fImckey\fR -M unmapped_multicast_address -b bind_address [-s] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-p port_space]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Establishes a set of RDMA multicast communication paths between nodes
using the librdmacm, optionally transfers datagrams to receiving nodes,
then tears down the communication.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-m multicast_address
IP multicast address to join.
.TP
\-M unmapped_multicast_address
RDMA transport specific multicast address to join.
.TP
\-s
Send datagrams to the multicast group.
.TP
\-b bind_address
The local network address to bind to.
.TP
\-c connections
The number of QPs to join the multicast group.  (default 1)
.TP
\-C message_count
The number of messages to transfer over each connection.  (default 10)
.TP
\-S message_size
The size of each message transferred, in bytes.  This value must be smaller
than the MTU of the underlying RDMA transport, or an error will occur.
(default 100)
.TP
\-p port_space
The port space of the datagram communication.  May be either the RDMA
UDP (0x0111) or IPoIB (0x0002) port space.  (default RDMA_PS_UDP)

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Basic usage is to start mckey -m multicast_address on a server system,
then run mckey -m multicast_address -s on a client system.
.P
Unique Infiniband SA assigned multicast GIDs can be retrived by
invoking mckey with a zero MGID or IP address.  (Example, -M 0 or
-m 0.0.0.0).  The assigned address will be displayed to allow
mckey clients to join the created group. 
.P
Because this test maps RDMA resources to userspace, users must ensure
that they have available system resources and permissions.  See the
libibverbs README file for additional details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_cm(7), ucmatose(1), udaddy(1), rping(1)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
