'\" te
.\" @(#) $Header: /tcpdump/master/libpcap/pcap-config.1,v 1.1 2008-09-23 18:04:01 guy Exp $ (LBL)
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
.\" retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2)
.\" distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and
.\" this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials
.\" provided with the distribution, and (3) all advertising materials mentioning
.\" features or use of this software display the following acknowledgement:
.\" ``This product includes software developed by the University of California,
.\" Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors.'' Neither the name of
.\" the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
.\" or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
.\" written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH PCAP-CONFIG 1 "26 March 2009"
.SH NAME
pcap-config \- write libpcap compiler and linker flags to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B pcap-config
[
.B \-\-static
]
[
.B \-\-cflags | \-\-libs | \-\-additional-libs
]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When run with the
.B \-\-cflags
option,
.I pcap-config
writes to the standard output the
.B \-I
compiler flags required to include libpcap's header files.
When run with the
.B \-\-libs
option,
.I pcap-config
writes to the standard output the
.B \-L
and
.B \-l
linker flags required to link with libpcap, including
.B \-l
flags for libraries required by libpcap.
When run with the
.B \-\-additional-libs
option,
.I pcap-config
writes to the standard output the
.B \-L
and
.B \-l
flags for libraries required by libpcap, but not the
.B \-lpcap
flag to link with libpcap itself.
.LP
By default, it writes flags appropriate for compiling with a
dynamically-linked version of libpcap; the
.B \-\-static
flag causes it to write flags appropriate for compiling with a
statically-linked version of libpcap.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/library/libpcap
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcap(3PCAP)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://www.tcpdump.org/release/libpcap-1.5.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.tcpdump.org/.
