'\" te
.\" $Id: pdf2dsc.1 11721 2010-09-14 14:56:26Z chrisl $
.TH PDF2DSC 1 "14 September 2010" 9.00 "Ghostscript Tools" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pdf2dsc \- generate a PostScript page list of a PDF document
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpdf2dsc\fR \fIinput.pdf\fR [ \fIoutput.dsc\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpdf2dsc\fR uses \fBgs\fR(1) to read an Adobe \fBPortable Document
Format\fR (PDF) document "input.pdf" and create a \fBPostScript\fR(tm)
document "output.dsc" that conforms to Adobe's \fBDocument Structuring
Conventions\fR (DSC) requirements.
.PP
This new document simply tells Ghostscript to read the PDF file and to
display pages one at a time.  The generated document can then be viewed
with any PostScript viewer based on Ghostscript, like \fBghostview\fR(1) on
Unix or \fBGSview\fR on Windows, with which the user can browse through the
pages of the PDF document in any order.
.PP
If no output file is named on the command line, the name of the output file
is that of the input file with any extension removed, followed by the
extension "\.dsc".
.SH CAVEATS
The DSC document uses Ghostscript-specific procedures.  In addition, the
original PDF document must be accessible when the DSC document is
processed.
.PP
You need the file "pdf2dsc.ps" (originally by Russell Lang) supplied with
Ghostscript since release 3.53.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/filter/ghostscript
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
gs(1), ghostview(1)
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised for Ghostscript version 9.00.
.SH AUTHOR
Yves Arrouye <yves.arrouye@usa.net> and Russell Lang gsview at ghostgum.com.au


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ghostscript.com/releases/ghostscript-9.00.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://ghostscript.com/.
