'\" te
.\" $Id: pdfopt.1 11721 2010-09-14 14:56:26Z chrisl $
.TH PDFOPT 1 "14 September 2010" 9.00 "Ghostscript Tools" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pdfopt \- Ghostscript PDF Optimizer
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpdfopt\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] \fIinput.pdf output.pdf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpdfopt\fR uses \fBgs\fR(1) to convert the Adobe \fBPortable Document
Format\fR (PDF) file "input.pdf" to a so-called optimized form in
"output.pdf".  Optimization puts the elements of the file into a more linear
order and adds "hint" pointers, allowing Adobe's Acrobat(TM) products to
display individual pages of the file more quickly when accessing the file
through a network.
.PP
Note: input.pdf and output.pdf must not be the same.  If they are, the file
will probably be destroyed.  \fBpdfopt\fR currently does not check for this.
.SH FILES
Run "\fBgs -h\fR" to find the location of Ghostscript documentation on your
system, from which you can get more details.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/filter/ghostscript
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
"Linearized PDF" in Adobe's PDF reference manual,
http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/acrosdk/DOCS/pdfspec.pdf
.SH VERSION
This document was last revised for Ghostscript version 9.00.
.SH AUTHOR
Artifex Software, Inc. are the
primary maintainers of Ghostscript.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ghostscript.com/releases/ghostscript-9.00.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://ghostscript.com/.
