'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2013, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH pfexec 1 "15 Mar 2012" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pfexec, pfbash, pfcsh, pfksh, pfsh, pftcsh, pfzsh \- execute a command in a profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfexec\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfexec\fR \fB-P\fR \fIprivspec\fR \fIcommand\fR [ \fIarg\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfsh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfcsh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pfksh\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIargument\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpfexec\fR program sets the \fBPRIV_PFEXEC\fR process flag and marks the current process as a profile shell. It then executes the specified command. The kernel queries the \fBexec_attr\fR(4) database and executes with the appropriate attributes.
.sp
.LP
Profiles are searched in the order specified in the user's entries in the \fBuser_attr\fR(4) database and \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4). For each user, there are two sets of profiles, an authenticated set, and an unauthenticated set. The user is required to re-authenticate prior to executing commands which match an entry in the\fBexec_attr\fR(4) database corresponding to the authenticated profiles set. If the command is executed from a terminal, the authentication state is cached for the current user and tty, subject to the timeout option set for \fBpam_tty_tickets\fR(5) in the PAM stack \fB/etc/pam.d/pfexec\fR. If there is no current tty, but there is an active X11 session, the user is prompted to authenticate through a zenity dialog. This authentication state is cached for the current user and DISPLAY environment setting. Processes that have been successfully re-authenticated, including those that were implicitly authenticated within the timeout value of the cache, are marked with an additional process flag, \fBPRIV_PFEXEC_AUTH\fR, which exempts child process from subsequent re-authentication. Both the \fBPRIV_PFEXEC\fR and \fBPRIV_PFEXEC_AUTH\fR flags are inherited by child processes unless the real uid is changed. Commands that match the set of unauthenticated profiles do not require re-authentication, but have lower precedence than commands in the set of authenticated profiles. If the same command appears in more than one profile, the profile shell uses the first matching entry.
.sp
.LP
The second form, \fBpfexec\fR \fB-P\fR \fIprivspec\fR, allows a user to obtain the additional privileges awarded to the user's profiles in \fBprof_attr\fR(4). The privileges specification on the commands line is parsed using \fBpriv_str_to_set\fR(3C). The resulting privileges are intersected with the union of the privileges specified using the \fBprivs\fR keyword in \fBprof_attr\fR(4) for all the user's profiles and added to the inheritable set before executing the command.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
\fBpfexec\fR is used to execute commands with predefined process attributes, such as specific user or group \fBID\fRs.
.sp
.LP
Refer to the \fBsh\fR(1), \fBcsh\fR(1), and \fBksh\fR(1) man pages for complete usage descriptions of the profile shells.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRObtaining additional user privileges
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpfexec -P all chown user file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command runs \fBchown user file\fR with all privileges assigned to the current user, not necessarily all privileges.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBbash\fR(1), \fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh88\fR(1), \fBprofiles\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBtcsh\fR(1), \fBzsh\fR(1), \fBexec_attr\fR(4), \fBprof_attr\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
