'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdhtml.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   ppdhtml man page for the Common UNIX Printing System.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdhtml 1 "CUPS" "10 October 2008" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdhtml \- cups html summary generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdhtml
[ -D
.I name[=value]
] [ -I
.I include-directory
]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdhtml\fR reads a driver information file and produces a
HTML summary page that lists all of the drivers in a file and
the supported options.
.PP
The \fI-D\fR option sets the named variable for use in the
source file. It is equivalent to using the #define directive
in the source file.
.PP
The \fI-I\fR option specifies an alternate include directory;
multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional
directories.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
ppdc(1), ppdcfile(5), ppdi(1), ppdmerge(1), ppdpo(1)
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdhtml.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
