'\" te
.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdmerge.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   ppdmerge man page for the Common UNIX Printing System.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdmerge 1 "CUPS" "20 May 2008" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdmerge \- merge ppd files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdmerge
[ \-o
.I output-ppd-file
]
.I ppd-file
.I ppd-file2
[
.I ... ppd-fileN
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdmerge\fR merges two or more PPD files into a single, multi-language
PPD file.
.PP
The \fI-o\fR option specifies the PPD file to create. If not specified,
the merged PPD file is written to the standard output. If the output file
already exists, the new 

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/cups
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH NOTES
\fIppdmerge\fR does not check whether the merged PPD files are for the
same device. Merging of different device PPDs will yield unpredictable
results.
.SH SEE ALSO
cupsprofile(1), ppdc(1), ppdhtml(1), ppdi(1), ppdpo(1), ppdcfile(5)
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdmerge.man 8421 2009-03-09 21:59:55Z mike $".
.\"


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.easysw.com/pub/cups/1.4.5/cups-1.4.5-source.tar.bz2

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.cups.org/.
