'\" te
.TH PSBOOK 1 "PSUtils Release 1 Patchlevel 17"
.SH NAME
psbook \- rearrange pages in PostScript file into signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psbook
[
.B \-q
] [
.B \-s\fIsignature\fR
] [
.I infile
[
.I outfile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psbook
rearranges pages from a PostScript document into ``signatures'' for
printing books or booklets, creating a new PostScript file. The
input PostScript file should follow the Adobe Document Structuring
Conventions.
.PP
The
.I \-s
option selects the size of signature which will be used. The signature size is
the number of sides which will be folded and bound together; the number given
should be a multiple of four. The default is to use one signature for the
whole file. Extra blank sides will be added if the file does not contain a
multiple of four pages.
.PP
Psbook normally prints the page numbers of the pages rearranged; the
.I \-q
option suppresses this.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) Angus J. C. Duggan 1991-1995

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	print/psutils
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
psbook(1), psselect(1), pstops(1), epsffit(1), psnup(1), psresize(1), psmerge(1), fixscribeps(1), getafm(1), fixdlsrps(1), fixfmps(1), fixmacps(1), fixpsditps(1), fixpspps(1), fixtpps(1), fixwfwps(1), fixwpps(1), fixwwps(1), extractres(1), includeres(1)
.SH TRADEMARKS
.B PostScript
is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH BUGS
.I Psbook
does not accept all DSC comments.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://gd.tuwien.ac.at/publishing/tex/tex-utils/psutils/psutils-p17.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://knackered.knackered.org/angus/psutils/.
