'\" te
.TH pv 1 "December 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pv \- monitor the progress of data through a pipe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pv
[\fIOPTION\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]...
.br
.B pv
[\fI\-h\fR|\fI\-V\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pv
allows a user to see the progress of data through a pipeline, by giving
information such as time elapsed, percentage completed (with progress bar),
current throughput rate, total data transferred, and ETA.

To use it, insert it in a pipeline between two processes, with the
appropriate options.  Its standard input will be passed through to its
standard output and progress will be shown on standard error.

.B pv
will copy each supplied
.B FILE
in turn to standard output
.BR "" "(" -
means standard input), or if no
.BR FILE s
are specified just standard input is copied. This is the same behaviour
as
.BR cat (1).

A simple example to watch how quickly a file is transferred using
.BR nc (1):

.RS
.B pv file | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000
.RE

A similar example, transferring a file from another process and passing the
expected size to
.BR pv :

.RS
.B cat file | pv -s 12345 | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000
.RE

A more complicated example using numeric output to feed into the
.BR dialog (1)
program for a full-screen progress display:
 
.RS
.B (tar cf - . \e
.br
.B " | pv -n -s $(du -sb . | awk '{print $1}') \e"
.br
.B " | gzip -9 > out.tgz) 2>&1 \e"
.br
.B | dialog --gauge 'Progress' 7 70
.RE

Frequent use of this third form is not recommended as it may cause the
programmer to overheat.


.SH OPTIONS
.B pv
takes many options, which are divided into display switches, output
modifiers, and general options.


.SH DISPLAY SWITCHES
If no display switches are specified,
.B pv
behaves as if
.BR \-p ", " \-t ", " \-e ", " \-r ", and " \-b
had been given (i.e. everything except average rate is switched on).
Otherwise, only those display types that are explicitly switched on will be
shown.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-progress
Turn the progress bar on.  If standard input is not a file and no
size was given (with the
.B \-s
modifier), the progress bar cannot indicate how close to completion the
transfer is, so it will just move left and right to indicate that data is
moving.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-timer
Turn the timer on.  This will display the total elapsed time that
.B pv
has been running for.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-eta
Turn the ETA timer on.  This will attempt to guess, based on previous
transfer rates and the total data size, how long it will be before
completion.  This option will have no effect if the total data size cannot
be determined.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-rate
Turn the rate counter on.  This will display the current rate of data
transfer.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-average\-rate
Turn the average rate counter on.  This will display the average rate of
data transfer so far.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bytes
Turn the total byte counter on.  This will display the total amount of
data transferred so far.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-numeric
Numeric output.  Instead of giving a visual indication of progress,
.B pv
will give an integer percentage, one per line, on standard error, suitable
for piping (via convoluted redirection) into
.BR dialog (1).
Note that
.B \-f
is not required if
.B \-n
is being used.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No output.  Useful if the
.B \-L
option is being used on its own to just limit the transfer rate of a pipe.


.SH OUTPUT MODIFIERS
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-wait
Wait until the first byte has been transferred before showing any progress
information or calculating any ETAs.  Useful if the program you are piping to
or from requires extra information before it starts, eg piping data into
.BR gpg (1)
or
.BR mcrypt (1)
which require a passphrase before data can be processed.
.TP
.B \-s SIZE, \-\-size SIZE
Assume the total amount of data to be transferred is
.B SIZE
bytes when calculating percentages and ETAs.  The same suffixes of "k", "m"
etc can be used as with
.BR -L .
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-line\-mode
Instead of counting bytes, count lines (newline characters). The progress
bar will only move when a new line is found, and the value passed to the
.B \-s
option will be interpreted as a line count.
.TP
.B \-i SEC, \-\-interval SEC
Wait
.B SEC
seconds between updates.  The default is to update every second.
Note that this can be a decimal such as 0.1.
.TP
.B \-w WIDTH, \-\-width WIDTH
Assume the terminal is
.B WIDTH
characters wide, instead of trying to work it out (or assuming 80 if it
cannot be guessed).
.TP
.B \-H HEIGHT, \-\-height HEIGHT
Assume the terminal is
.B HEIGHT
rows high, instead of trying to work it out (or assuming 25 if it
cannot be guessed).
.TP
.B \-N NAME, \-\-name NAME
Prefix the output information with
.BR NAME .
Useful in conjunction with
.B \-c
if you have a complicated pipeline and you want to be able to tell different
parts of it apart.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Force output.  Normally,
.B pv
will not output any visual display if standard error is not a terminal. 
This option forces it to do so.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cursor
Use cursor positioning escape sequences instead of just using carriage
returns.  This is useful in conjunction with
.B \-N
(name) if you are using multiple
.B pv
invocations in a single, long, pipeline.


.SH DATA TRANSFER MODIFIERS
.TP
.B \-L RATE, \-\-rate-limit RATE
Limit the transfer to a maximum of
.B RATE
bytes per second.  A suffix of "k", "m", "g", or "t" can be added to denote
kilobytes (*1024), megabytes, and so on.
.TP
.B \-B BYTES, \-\-buffer-size BYTES
Use a transfer buffer size of
.B BYTES
bytes.  A suffix of "k", "m", "g", or "t" can be added to denote
kilobytes (*1024), megabytes, and so on.  The default buffer size is the
block size of the input file's filesystem multiplied by 32 (512kb max), or
400kb if the block size cannot be determined.
.TP
.B \-R PID, \-\-remote PID
If
.B PID
is an instance of
.B pv
that is already running,
.B \-R PID
will cause that instance to act as though it had been given
this instance's command line instead.  For example, if
.B pv -L 123k
is running with process ID 9876, then running
.B pv -R 9876 -L 321k
will cause it to start using a rate limit of 321k instead of 123k.
Note that some options cannot be changed while running, such as
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-l ,
and
.BR \-f .


.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version         
Print version information on standard output and exit successfully.


.SH EXIT STATUS
An exit status of 1 indicates a problem with the
.B \-R
option.

Any other exit status is a bitmask of the following:

.TP
.B 2
One or more files could not be accessed, 
.BR stat (2)ed,
or opened.
.TP
.B 4
An input file was the same as the output file.
.TP
.B 8
Internal error with closing a file or moving to the next file.
.TP
.B 16
There was an error while transferring data from one or more input files.
.TP
.B 32
A signal was caught that caused an early exit.
.TP
.B 64
Memory allocation failed.

A zero exit status indicates no problems.



.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Wood <andrew.wood@ivarch.com>
.br
.I http://www.ivarch.com/

Kevin Coyner <kcoyner@debian.org>
.br
(Debian package maintainer)

Jakub Hrozek <jhrozek@redhat.com>
.br
(Fedora package maintainer)

Cedric Delfosse <cedric@debian.org>
.br
(previous Debian package maintainer)

Eduardo Aguiar <eduardo.oliveira@sondabrasil.com.br>
.br
(provided Portuguese [Brazilian] translation)

Stephane Lacasse <stephane@gorfou.ca>
.br
(provided French translation)
.br
.I http://gorfou.ca/

Marcos Kreinacke <public@kreinacke.com>
.br
(provided German translation)

Bartosz Fenski <fenio@o2.pl>
.br
(provided Polish translation, along with Krystian Zubel)
.br
.I http://skawina.eu.org/

Joshua Jensen
.br
(reported RPM installation bug)

Boris Folgmann
.br
(reported cursor handling bug)
.br
.I http://www.folgmann.com/en/

Mathias Gumz
.br
(reported NLS bug)

Daniel Roethlisberger
.br
(submitted patch to use lockfiles for -c if terminal locking fails)

Adam Buchbinder
.br
(lots of help with a Cygwin port of -c)

Mark Tomich
.br
(suggested -B option)
.br
.I http://metuchen.dyndns.org

Gert Menke
.br
(reported bug when piping to dd with a large input buffer size)

Ville Herva <Ville.Herva@iki.fi>
.br
(informative bug report about rate limiting performance)

Elias Pipping
.br
(patch to compile properly on Darwin 9; potential NULL deref report)

Patrick Collison
.br
(similar patch for OS X)

Boris Lohner
.br
(reported problem that -L does not complain if given non-numeric value)

Sebastian Kayser
.br
(supplied testing for SIGPIPE, demonstrated internationalisation problem)

Laszlo Ersek
.br
(reported shared memory leak on SIGINT with -c)
.br
.I http://phptest11.atw.hu/

Phil Rutschman
.br
(provided a patch for fully restoring terminal state on exit)
.br
.I http://bandgap.rsnsoft.com/

Henry Precheur
.br
(reporting and suggestions for --rate-limit bug when rate is under 10)
.br
.I http://henry.precheur.org/

E. Rosten
.br
(supplied patch for block buffering in line mode)
.br
.I http://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/~er258/

Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.br
(reported compilation error with default CFLAGS on non-GCC compilers)

Alexandre de Verteuil
.br
(reported bug in OS X build and supplied test environment to fix in)

Martin Baum
.br
(supplied patch to return nonzero exit status if terminated by signal)

Sam Nelson
.br
(supplied patch to fix trailing slash on DESTDIR)
.br
.I http://www.siliconfuture.net/

Daniel Pape
.br
(reported Cygwin installation problem due to DESTDIR)

Henry Gebhardt <hsggebhardt@googlemail.com>
.br
(supplied patches to improve SI prefixes and add --average-rate)

Vladimir Kokarev
.br
Alexander Leo
.br
(reported that exit status did not reflect file errors)


.SH BUGS
If you find any bugs, please contact the primary author, either by email or
by using the contact form on the web site.



.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	shell/pipe-viewer
=
Stability	Uncommitted
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1),
.BR dialog (1)


.SH LICENSE
This is free software, distributed under the ARTISTIC 2.0 license.


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://pipeviewer.googlecode.com/files/pv-1.2.0.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.ivarch.com/programs/pv.shtml.
