'\" te
.TH "RPING" 1 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "librdmacm" librdmacm
.SH NAME
rping \- RDMA CM connection and RDMA ping-pong test.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIrping\fR -s [-v] [-V] [-d] [-P] [-a address] [-p port]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size]
\fIrping\fR -c [-v] [-V] [-d] -a address [-p port]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Establishes a reliable RDMA connection between two nodes using the
librdmacm, optionally performs RDMA transfers between the nodes,
then disconnects.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-s
Run as the server.
.TP
\-c
Run as the client.
.TP
\-a address
On the server, specifies the network address to bind the connection to.
On the client, specifies the server address to connect to.
.TP
\-p
Port number for listening server.
.TP
\-v
Display ping data.
.TP
\-V
Validate ping data.
.TP
\-d
Display debug information.
.TP
\-C message_count
The number of messages to transfer over each connection.  (default infinite)
.TP
\-S message_size
The size of each message transferred, in bytes.  (default 100)
.TP
\-P
Run the server in persistent mode.  This allows multiple rping clients
to connect to a single server instance. The server will run until killed.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Because this test maps RDMA resources to userspace, users must ensure
that they have available system resources and permissions.  See the
libibverbs README file for additional details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_cm(7), ucmatose(1), udaddy(1), mckey(1)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
