'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH sccs-sact 1 "22 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-sact, sact \- show editing activity status of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsact\fR \fIs.filename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsact\fR utility informs the user of any \fBSCCS\fR files that are checked out for editing.
.sp
.LP
The output for each named file consists of five fields separated by \fBSPACE\fR characters.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSID\fR of a delta that currently exists in the \fBSCCS\fR file, to which changes are made to make the new delta
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSID\fR for the new delta to be created
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Username of the person who has the file checked out for editing.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Date that the version was checked out.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Time that the version was checked out.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fBsact\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBsact\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydeveloper/build/make
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsccs\fR(1), \fBsccs-delta\fR(1), \fBsccs-get\fR(1), \fBsccs-help\fR(1), \fBsccs-prs\fR(1), \fBsccs-prt\fR(1), \fBwhat\fR(1), \fBsccsfile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsccs-help\fR command for explanations of SCCS commands. See \fBsccs-help\fR(1).
