'\" te
.\" Portions of this file are subject to the following copyright.  See
.\" the Net-SNMP's COPYING file for more details and other copyrights
.\" that may apply:
.\" /***********************************************************
.\" Portions of this file are copyrighted by:
.\" Copyright Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms specified in the COPYING file
.\" distributed with the Net-SNMP package.
.\" ******************************************************************/
.TH SNMPDF 1 "25 Jul 2003" V5.4.1 "Net-SNMP"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
snmpdf - display disk space usage on a network entity via SNMP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snmpdf
[COMMON OPTIONS] [-Cu] AGENT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snmpdf
is simply a networked verison of the typical df command.  It
checks the disk space on the remote machine by examining the
HOST-RESOURCES-MIB's hrStorageTable or the UCD-SNMP-MIB's dskTable.
By default, the hrStorageTable is preferred as it typically contains
more information.  However, the -Cu argument can be passed to snmpdf
to force the usage of the dskTable.
.PP
AGENT identifies a target SNMP agent, which is instrumented
to monitor the gievn objects.  At its simplest, the AGENT
specification will consist of a hostname or an IPv4
address.  In this situation, the command will attempt
communication with the agent, using UDP/IPv4 to port 161
of the given target host. See the
.I snmpcmd(1)
manual page for a full list of the possible formats for AGENT.
.PP
See the
.I snmpd.conf(5)
manual page on setting up the dskTable using the 
.I disk
directive in the snmpd.conf file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B COMMON OPTIONS
Please see
.I snmpcmd(1)
for a list of possible values for COMMON OPTIONS
as well as their descriptions.
.TP
.B -Cu
Forces the command to use dskTable in mib
UCD-SNMP-MIB instead of the default to determine
the storage information. Generally, the default
use of hrStorageTable in mib HOST-RESOURCES-MIB
is preferred because it typically contains
more information.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
% snmpdf -v 2c -c public localhost
.PP
.nf
Description       size (kB)         Used    Available Used%
/                   7524587      2186910      5337677   29%
/proc                     0            0            0    0%
/etc/mnttab               0            0            0    0%
/var/run            1223088           32      1223056    0%
/tmp                1289904        66848      1223056    5%
/cache               124330         2416       121914    1%
/vol                      0            0            0    0%
Real Memory          524288       447456        76832   85%
Swap Space          1420296       195192      1225104   13%
.fi

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	system/management/snmp/net-snmp/documentation
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snmpd.conf(5), snmp.conf(5)


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  http://ftp.ntua.gr/mirror/net-snmp/OldFiles/net-snmp-5.4.x/5.4.1/net-snmp-5.4.1.tar.gz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.net-snmp.org/.
