'\" te
.TH "UCMATOSE" 1 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "librdmacm" librdmacm
.SH NAME
ucmatose \- RDMA CM connection and simple ping-pong test.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIucmatose\fR [-s server_address] [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size]
\fIucmatose\fR -s server_address [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-t tos]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Establishes a set of reliable RDMA connections between two nodes using the
librdmacm, optionally transfers data between the nodes, then disconnects.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-s server_address
The network name or IP address of the server system listening for
connections.  The used name or address must route over an RDMA device.
This option must be specified by the client.
.TP
\-b bind_address
The local network address to bind to.
.TP
\-c connections
The number of connections to establish between the client and server.
(default 1)
.TP
\-C message_count
The number of messages to transfer over each connection.  (default 10)
.TP
\-S message_size
The size of each message transferred, in bytes.  (default 100)
.TP
\-t tos
Indicates the type of service used for the communication.  Type of service
is implementation dependent based on subnet configuration.
.TP
\-m
Tests event channel migration.  Migrates all communication identifiers to
a different event channel for disconnect events.

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Basic usage is to start ucmatose on a server system, then run
ucmatose -s server_name on a client system.
.P
Because this test maps RDMA resources to userspace, users must ensure
that they have available system resources and permissions.  See the
libibverbs README file for additional details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_cm(7), udaddy(1), mckey(1), rping(1)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
