'\" te
.TH "UDADDY" 1 "2007-05-15" "librdmacm" "librdmacm" librdmacm
.SH NAME
udaddy \- RDMA CM datagram setup and simple ping-pong test.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIudaddy\fR [-s server_address] [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-p port_space]
\fIudaddy\fR -s server_address [-b bind_address] [-c connections]
		[-C message_count] [-S message_size] [-t tos] [-p port_space]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Establishes a set of unreliable RDMA datagram communication paths between two
nodes using the librdmacm, optionally transfers datagrams between the nodes,
then tears down the communication.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-s server_address
The network name or IP address of the server system listening for
communication.  The used name or address must route over an RDMA device.
This option must be specified by the client.
.TP
\-b bind_address
The local network address to bind to.
.TP
\-c connections
The number of communication paths to establish between the client and server.
The test uses unreliable datagram communication, so no actual connections are
formed.  (default 1)
.TP
\-C message_count
The number of messages to transfer over each connection.  (default 10)
.TP
\-S message_size
The size of each message transferred, in bytes.  This value must be smaller
than the MTU of the underlying RDMA transport, or an error will occur.
(default 100)
.TP
\-t tos
Indicates the type of service used for the communication.  Type of service
is implementation dependent based on subnet configuration.
.TP
\-p port_space
The port space of the datagram communication.  May be either the RDMA
UDP (0x0111) or IPoIB (0x0002) port space.  (default RDMA_PS_UDP)

.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	network/open-fabrics
=
Stability	Volatile
.TE 
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
Basic usage is to start udaddy on a server system, then run
udaddy -s server_name on a client system.
.P
Because this test maps RDMA resources to userspace, users must ensure
that they have available system resources and permissions.  See the
libibverbs README file for additional details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rdma_cm(7), ucmatose(1), mckey(1), rping(1)


.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ['http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/ibutils/ibutils-1.5.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libibverbs/libibverbs-1.1.4-1.22.g7257cd3.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libmlx4/libmlx4-1.0.1-1.18.gb810a27.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/libsdp/libsdp-1.1.108-0.15.gd7fdb72.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/infiniband-diags-1.5.8.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibmad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/libibumad-1.3.7.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/management/opensm-3.3.9.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/perftest/perftest-1.3.0-0.42.gf350d3d.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/qperf/qperf-0.4.6-0.1.gb81434e.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rdmacm/librdmacm-1.0.14.1.tar.gz', 'http://www.openfabrics.org/downloads/rds-tools/rds-tools-2.0.4.tar.gz']

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.openfabrics.org/.
