'\" te
.TH zipnote 1 "v3.0 of 8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
zipsplit \- split a zipfile into smaller zipfiles

.SH SYNOPSIS
.I zipsplit
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-n\ size ]
.RB [ \-r\ room ]
.RB [ \-b\ path ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-L ]
zipfile

.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +13
.ti -13
zipfile  Zipfile to split.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t
Report how many files it will take, but don't make them.
.TP
.BI \-i
Make index (zipsplit.idx) and count its size against first zip file.
.TP
.BI \-n\ \fRsize
Make zip files no larger than "size" (default = 36000).
.TP
.BI \-r\ \fRroom
Leave room for "room" bytes on the first disk (default = 0).
.TP
.BI \-b\ \fRpath
Use path for the output zip files.
.TP
.BI \-p
Pause between output zip files.
.TP
.BI \-s
Do a sequential split even if it takes more zip files.
.TP
.BI \-h
Show a short help.
.TP
.BI \-v
Show version information.
.TP
.BI \-L
Show software license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I zipsplit
reads a zipfile and splits it into smaller zipfiles.

.SH EXAMPLES
To be filled in.

.SH BUGS
Does not yet support large (> 2 GB) or split archives.


.\" Oracle has added the ARC stability level to this manual page
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE 
=
Availability	compress/zip
=
Stability	Committed
.TE 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
zip(1), unzip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Info-ZIP


.SH NOTES

.\" Oracle has added source availability information to this manual page
This software was built from source available at https://java.net/projects/solaris-userland.  The original community source was downloaded from  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/src/zip30.tgz

Further information about this software can be found on the open source community website at http://www.info-zip.org/Zip.html.
