.\" Copyright 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.TH SESSREG 1 "sessreg 1.1.0" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
sessreg \- manage utmpx/wtmpx entries for non-init clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sessreg
[-w \fIwtmpx-file\fP]
[-u \fIutmpx-file\fP]
[-L \fIlastlog-file\fP]
[-l \fIline-name\fP]
[-h \fIhost-name\fP]
[-s \fIslot-number\fP]
[-x \fIXservers-file\fP]
[-t \fIttys-file\fP]
[-V]
[-a]
[-d]
\fIuser-name\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISessreg\fP is a simple program for managing utmpx/wtmpx and lastlog
entries for xdm sessions.
.\" __BEGIN_UTMPX_ONLY__
.PP
This version of \fIsessreg\fP is built using the modern POSIX
.BR pututxline (3c)
interfaces, which no longer require the slot-number, ttys-file, or
Xservers-file mappings.  For compatibility with older versions and other
operating systems, the \fB-s\fP, \fB-t\fP, and \fB-x\fP flags are accepted,
but ignored.
.\" __END_UTMPX_ONLY__
.SH USAGE
.PP
In Xstartup, place a call like:
.nf

       sessreg -a -l $DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER

.fi
and in Xreset:
.nf

       sessreg -d -l $DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-w\fP \fIwtmpx-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate wtmpx file, instead of
.BR _PATH_WTMPX .
The special name "none" disables writing records to the wtmpx file.
.IP "\fB-u\fP \fIutmpx-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate utmpx file, instead of
.BR "/var/run/utmpx" .
The special name "none" disables writing records to the utmpx file.
.IP "\fB-L\fP \fIlastlog-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate lastlog file, instead of
.BR "/var/log/lastlog" ,
if the platform supports lastlog files.
The special name "none" disables writing records to the lastlog file.
.IP "\fB-l\fP \fIline-name\fP"
This describes the "line" name of the entry.  For terminal sessions,
this is the final pathname segment of the terminal device filename
(e.g. ttyd0).  For X sessions, it should probably be the local display name
given to the users session (e.g. :0).  If none is specified, the
terminal name will be determined with ttyname(3) and stripped of leading
components.
.IP "\fB-h\fP \fIhost-name\fP"
This is set to indicate that the session was initiated from
a remote host.  In typical xdm usage, this options is not used.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIslot-number\fP"
.\" __BEGIN_UTMPX_ONLY__
This option is accepted for compatibility, but does nothing in
this version of \fIsessreg\fP.
.\" __END_UTMPX_ONLY__
.IP "\fB-x\fP \fIXservers-file\fP"
.\" __BEGIN_UTMPX_ONLY__
This option is accepted for compatibility, but does nothing in
this version of \fIsessreg\fP.
.\" __END_UTMPX_ONLY__
.IP "\fB-t\fP \fIttys-file\fP"
.\" __BEGIN_UTMPX_ONLY__
This option is accepted for compatibility, but does nothing in
this version of \fIsessreg\fP.
.\" __END_UTMPX_ONLY__
.IP "\fB-V\fP"
This option causes the command to print its version and exit.
.IP "\fB-a\fP"
This session should be added to utmpx/wtmpx.
.IP "\fB-d\fP"
This session should be deleted from utmpx/wtmpx.  One of -a/-d must
be specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xdm (1),
.BR utmpx (5),
.BR wtmpx (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
