.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd January 2, 2012      \" DATE 
.Dt vbscanner 1          \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm vbscanner
.Nd Command line scanner for VirusBarrier
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op options
.Ar                      \" file ...
.Nm
.Op options
.Fl Fl quick-scan
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
interfaces with
.Nm virusbarriers(8)
to run scans from the command line on the specified files.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width "--ignore-bootcamp-volumes"
.It Fl Fl info
Print information about engine version and installed definitions.
.It Fl Fl quick-scan
Scan a predefined set of paths.
.It Fl Fl repair
Scan, then repair infected files.
.It Fl Fl traverse-mount-points
Traverse mount points.
.It Fl Fl process-archives
Process archives.
.It Fl Fl ignore-network-volumes
Do not process network volumes.
.It Fl Fl ignore-bootcamp-volumes
Do not process Boot Camp volumes.
.It Fl Fl exclude-path Ar file
Exclude the specified path from scanning. This option can be used as many times as necessary.
.It Fl Fl archive-timeout Ar value
The archive/unarchive operations will be aborted if they last longer than the timeout. Default is 60 seconds.
.It Fl Fl quiet
Do not display progress information.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\".Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\".Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\".It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\"FILE_1 description
.\".It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\"FILE_2 description
.\".El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr virusbarrierd 8 , 
.Xr virusbarriers 8 ,
.Xr virusbarrierb 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner