#title Beginning Android 4

#contents Contents

#about_the_authors About the Authors

#about_the_technical_reviewer About the Technical Reviewer

#acknowledgments Acknowledgmennts

#preface Preface

#partI Part I: Core Concept

#chapter1 Chapter 1: The Big Picture

** Benefits and Darwbacks of Smartphone Programming

** What Androids Are Made Of

 - Activities

The building block of the user interface is the activity.

You can think of an activity as being the Android analogue for the window or dialog box in a desktop application or the page in a classic web application.

Android is designed to support lots of cheap activities, so you can allow users to keep tapping to open new activities and tapping the Back button to back up, just like they do in a web browser.

 - Services

Activities are short-lived and can be shut down at any time.

Services, on the other hand, are designed to keep running, if needed, independent of any activity, akin to the notion of services or daemons on other operating systems.

You might use a service to check for updates to an RSS feed or to play back music even if the controlling activity is no longer operating. 

You will also use services for scheduled tasks ("cron jobs") and for exposing custom APIs to other applications on the device, though those are relatively advanced capabilities.

 - Content providers

Content providers provide a level of abstraction for any data stored on the device that is accessible by multiple applications.

The Android development model encourages you to make your own data available to other applications, as well as your own applications.

Building a content provider lets you do that, while maintaining complete control over how your data gets accessed.

Content providers can be anything from web feeds, to local SQLite databasses, and beyond.

 - Intents

Intents are system messages that run around the inside of the device and notify applications of various events, from hardware state changes, to incoming data, to application events.

Intents are much like messages or events on other operating systems.

Not only can you respond to an Intent, but you can create your own to launch other activities or to let you know when specific situations arise.

** Stuff at Your Disposal

 - Storage

You can package data files with your application for things that do not change, such as icons or help files.

You also can carve out a small bit of space on the device itself, for databases or files containing user-entered or retrieved data needed by your application.

And, if the user suppplies bulk storage, like an SD card, you can read and write files on there as needed.

 - Network

Android devices generally are internet-ready, through one communications medium or another.

You can take advantage of the Internet access at any level you wish, from raw Java sockets all the the way up to a built-in WebKit-based web browser widget you can embed in your application.

 - Multimedia

Android devices have the ability to play back and record audio and video.

While the specifics may vary from device to device, you can query the device to learn its capabilities and then take advantage of the multimedia capabilities as you see fit, whether that is to play back music, take pictures with the camera, or use the microphone for audio note-taking.

 - Location services

Android devices frequently have access to location providers, such as GPS and cell triangulation, which can tell your applicatons where the device is on the face of the Earth. 

In turn, you can display maps or otherwise take advantage of the location data, such as to track a device's movements if the device has been stolen.

 - Phone services

Because Android devices are typically phones, your software can initiate calls, send and receive SMS mesages, and do everything else you expec from a modern bit of telephony technology.

** The Big Picture...of This Book

 - 接下来的两章用来让你快速熟悉android环境，通过一系列的手把手教程似的指令来设置你需要的工具，创建你的第一个工程，并且让你的工程在模拟器上运行起来。

 - 再接下来的三章解释了第二章和第三章中发生的事情。我们测试了建立的工程，谈论了一些Eclipse，并且讨论了一些能够添加到工程里的事情，来帮助它运行在更多的设备上，增加它的能力。

 - 书中大量的内容探索了Android APIs的各种能力——如何创建一个类似于activities的组件，如何访问网络和本地数据库，如何获取你的位置并显示在地图上，等等。

#chapter2 Chapter 2: How to Get Started

** Step 1: Set Up Java

*** Install the JDK

*** Learn Java

 - Language fundamentals(flow control, etc.)

 - Classes and objects

 - Methods and data members

 - Public, private, and protected

 - Static and instance scope

 - Exceptions

 - Threads and concurrency control 

 - Collections 

 - Generics

 - File I/O

 - Reflection

 - Interfaces

参考书 Learn Java for Android Development , by Jeff Friesen (Apress, 2010).

** Step 2: Install the Android SDK

*** Install the Base Tools

#chapter3 Chapter 3: Your First Android Project

#chapter4 Chapter 4: Examining Your First Project

#chapter5 Chapter 5: A Bit About Eclipse

#chapter6 Chapter 6: Enhancing Your First Project

#partII PartII  Activities

#chapter7 Chapter 7: Rewriteing Your First Project

** The Activity

#chapter8 Chapter 8: Using XML-Based Layouts

#chapter9 Chapter 9: Employing Basic Widgets

#chapter10 Chapter 10: Working with Containers

#chapter11 Chapter 11: The Input Method Framework

#chapter12 Chapter 12: Using Selection Widgets

#chapter13 Chapter 13: Getting Fancy with Lists

#chapter14 Chapter 14: Still More Widgets and Containers

#chapter15 Chapter 15: Embedding the WebKit Browser

#chapter16 Chapter 16: Apply Menus

#chapter17 Chapter 17: Showing Pop-Up Messages

#chapter18 Chapter 18: Handing Activity Lifecycle Events

#chapter19 Chapter 19: Handing Rotation

#chapter20 Chapter 20: Dealing with Threads

#chapter21 Chapter 21: Creating Intent Filters

#chapter22 Chapter 22: Launching Activities and Subactivities

#chapter23 Chapter 23: Working with Resources

#chapter24 Chapter 24: Defining and Using Styles

#partIII Part III: Honeycomb and Tablets

#chapter25 Chapter 25: Handling Multiple Screen Sizes

#chapter26 Chapter 26: Focusing on Tablets and Larger UIs

#chapter27 Chapter 27: Using the Action Bar

#chapter28 Chapter 28: Fragments

#chapter29 Chapter 29: Handling Platform Changes

#partIV Part IV: Data Stores, Network Services, and APIs

#chapter30 Chapter 30: Accessing Files

#chapter31 Chapter 31: Using Preferences

#chapter32 Chapter 32: Managing and Accessing Local Databases

#chapter33 Chapter 33: Leveraging Java Libraries

#chapter34 Chapter 34: Communicating via the Internet

#partV Part V: Services

#chapter35 Chapter 35: Services: The Theory

#chapter36 Chapter 36: Basic Service Patterns

#chapter37 Chapter 37: Alerting Users via Notifications

#partVI Part VI: Other Android Capabilities

#chapter38 Chapter 38: Requesting and Requiring Permissions

#chapter39 Chapter 39: Accessing Location-Based Services

#chapter40 Chapter 40: Mapping with MapView and MapActivity

#chapter41 Chapter 41: Handling Telephone Calls

#chapter42 Chapter 42: Fonts

#chapter43 Chapter 43: More Development Tools

#partVII Part VII: Alternative Application Environments

#chapter44 Chapter 44: The Role of Alternative Environments

#chapter45 Chapter 45: HTML5

#chapter46 Chapter 46: PhoneCap

#chapter47 Chapter 47: Other Alternative Environments

#partVIII Part VIII: The Ever-Evolving Android

#chapter48 Chapter 48: Dealing with Devices

#chapter49 Chapter 49: Where Do We Go from Here?

#index Index
