#title How Microsoft conquered China?

#author FORTUNE Magazine 

#date July 17 2007: 9:58 AM EDT

* How Microsoft Conquered China?

Or is it the other way around? Fortune's David Kirkpatrick goes on the road to 
Beijing with Bill Gates, who threw his business model out the window.

By David Kirkpatrick, Fortune senior editor

(Fortune Magazine) -- Mr. Bill Gates! Mr. Bill Gates!" a young woman shrieks as 
the black car pulls up. A pallid student in a nylon windbreaker pushes his way 
through the security line and hands the world's richest man a small envelope 
with a floral design. "It's very important," he pants.

Another day in China, another round of adulation. Today the Microsoft (Charts, 
Fortune 500) chairman is being named an honorary trustee of Peking University. 
Yesterday it was an honorary doctorate from Beijing's Tsinghua University - the 
13th in the school's 82-year history. Gates, wearing the same lopsided grin he 
has had on his face for the past few days, takes the envelope from the young 
man. For him this is a triumphant visit to China, a victory lap of sorts, on 
which I've been invited to tag along. The country is his.

No other Fortune 500 CEO gets quite the same treatment in China. While most 
would count themselves lucky to talk with one of China's top leaders, Gates 
will meet with four members of the Politburo on this four-day April trip. As 
one government leader put it while introducing Gates at a business conference, 
the Microsoft chairman is "bigger in China than any movie star." Last spring 
President Hu Jintao toured the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Wash., and was 
feted at a dinner at Gates' home. "You are a friend to the Chinese people, and 
I am a friend of Microsoft," Hu told his host. "Every morning I go to my office 
and use your software."

[[http://money.cnn.com/galleries/2007/fortune/0707/gallery.global500_photos.fortune/index.html][In pictures: Gates goes to China]]

It was not always so. Microsoft bumbled for years after entering China in 1992, 
and its business was a disaster there for a decade. It finally figured out that 
almost none of the basic precepts that led to its success in the U.S. and 
Europe made sense in China. There Microsoft had to become the un-Microsoft - 
pricing at rock bottom instead of charging hundreds of dollars for its Windows 
operating system and Office applications; abandoning the centerpiece of its 
public-policy approach elsewhere, the protection of its intellectual property 
at all costs; and closely partnering with the government instead of fighting 
it as in the U.S., a stance that has opened the company to criticism from human 
rights groups.

"It took Microsoft 15 years and billions of dollars of lost revenue to learn 
how to do business in China," says Sigurd Leung, who follows the company at 
research firm Analysys International in Beijing. "We were a naive American 
company," concedes Gates in an interview in his car as he is driven to yet 
another meeting with government leaders. "You've got to just keep trying and 
trying and trying." But now, he says, snacking on Pringles and Diet Coke, "we 
have a wonderful position in China, and we're going to see great growth every 
year for the next five years."

Gates says he's certain China will eventually be Microsoft's biggest market, 
though it may take ten years. Projected sales this year are already three times 
what they were in 2004, yet still less than annual revenue in California. 
(Microsoft will not disclose figures, but Fortune estimates China revenue will 
exceed $700 million in 2007, about 1.5% of global sales.) Now Microsoft even 
has its own five-year plan in China, formulated to match up with the 
government's. Says Robert Hormats, a longtime China watcher at Goldman Sachs: 
"It's a great turnaround story with wonderful lessons for other companies."

* False start

The story begins 15 years ago, when Microsoft sent a couple of sales managers 
into China from Taiwan. Their mission? Sell software at the same prices the 
company charged elsewhere. Says Craig Mundie, the top Microsoft executive who 
now guides its China strategy: "It was the classic model - hang out a shingle 
and say, 'Microsoft: Open for business.'" But the model didn't work.

The problem wasn't brand acceptance; everyone was using Windows. It's just that 
no one was paying. Counterfeit copies could be bought on the street for a few 
dollars. As Ya-Qin Zhang, who heads Microsoft's Chinese R&D, puts it: "In China 
we didn't have problems with market share. The issue is how do we translate 
that into revenue."

Microsoft fought bitterly to protect its intellectual property. It sued 
companies for using its software illegally but lost regularly in court. Its 
executives, who often disagreed with the strategy, failed in its 
implementation. Country managers came and went - five in one five-year period. 
Two of them later wrote books criticizing the company. One, Juliet Wu, whose 
"Up Against the Wind" became a local bestseller, wrote that Microsoft 
heartlessly sought sales by any means, that its antipiracy policy was 
needlessly heavy-handed, and that her own efforts to help bosses in Redmond 
understand China had been rebuffed.

Then a different form of resistance emerged. Beijing's city government started 
installing free open-source Linux operating systems on workers' PCs. (The 
Chinese Academy of Sciences promoted a version called Red Flag Linux.) 
Meanwhile security officials were troubled that government and military 
operations depended on Microsoft software made in the U.S. Could the technology 
be spying on China?

In 1999, Gates sent Mundie, who heads the company's public-policy efforts, to 
figure out why Microsoft was so reviled. On the trip he had an epiphany: "I 
remember going back to Redmond and saying, 'Our business is just broken in 
China,'" Mundie recalls. He concluded that the company was assigning executives 
too junior and that selling per se was overemphasized. "But where we were most 
broken," he says, "was that our business practices and our engagement did not 
reflect the importance of having a collaborative approach with the government."

Mundie started visiting China four or five times a year. He brought 25 of the 
company's 100 vice presidents for a week-long "China Immersion Tour." He hired 
former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to advise him and open doors. And he 
told leaders that Microsoft wanted to help China develop its own software 
industry, an urgent government priority. The company even commissioned a 
McKinsey study for Chinese officials in 2001 that, among other things, 
recommended improving the protection of intellectual property.

Mundie also began talks with Chinese security officials to convince them that 
Microsoft's software was not a secret tool of the U.S. government. As a result, 
in 2003 the company offered China and 59 other countries the right to look at 
the fundamental source code for its Windows operating system and to substitute 
certain portions with their own software - something Microsoft had never 
allowed in the past. Now when China uses Windows in President Hu's office, or 
for that matter in its missile systems, it can install its own cryptography.

But it was a relatively small step in 1998 - the opening of a research center 
in Beijing - that proved a turning point. "We just started it here because we 
thought they'd do great research," says Gates, who raves about the quality of 
the country's computer scientists. The lab was what Gates calls a "windfall" 
for Microsoft's image. It began accumulating an impressive record of academic 
publications, helped lure back smart emigre[1] scientists, and contributed key 
components to globally released products like the Vista operating system. The 
lab soon became, according to polls, the most desirable place in the country 
for computer scientists to work.

By 2001, Microsoft executives were coming to the conclusion that China's weak 
IP-enforcement laws meant its usual pricing strategies were doomed to fail. 
Gates argued at the time that while it was terrible that people in China 
pirated so much software, if they were going to pirate anybody's software 
he'd certainly prefer it be Microsoft's.

Today Gates openly concedes that tolerating piracy turned out to be Microsoft's 
best long-term strategy. That's why Windows is used on an estimated 90% of 
China's 120 million PCs. "It's easier for our software to compete with Linux 
when there's piracy than when there's not," Gates says. "Are you kidding? You 
can get the real thing, and you get the same price." Indeed, in China's back 
alleys, Linux often costs more than Windows because it requires more disks. 
And Microsoft's own prices have dropped so low it now sells a $3 package of 
Windows and Office to students.

In 2003, Mundie and Gates took a quantum leap forward in China by hiring Tim 
Chen, who had been running Motorola's China subsidiary. Chen was a superstar, 
but when he was hired, articles in the Chinese press asked if he, too, would 
fall victim to the Microsoft "curse."

Chen arrived with entree[2] to the corridors of power and a practiced 
understanding of how a Western company could succeed in China. He kept up the 
blitz of initiatives. Microsoft made Shanghai a global center to respond to 
customer e-mails. It began extensive training programs for teachers and 
software entrepreneurs. It worked with the Ministry of Education to finance 
100 model computer classrooms in rural areas.

[[http://money.cnn.com/2007/07/05/news/international/chinese_lawsuits.fortune/index.htm][China's newest export: lawsuits]]

"So with all this work," says Chen, "we start changing the perception that 
Microsoft is the company coming just to do antipiracy and sue people. We 
changed the company's image. We're the company that has the long-term vision. 
If a foreign company's strategy matches with the government's development 
agenda, the government will support you, even if they don't like you."

Microsoft put its money on the line, even inviting officials to help decide in 
which local software and outsourcing companies it should invest. So far 
Microsoft has spent $65 million, and it recently committed to an additional 
$100 million. Says Chen: "There was synergy, which we formalized, between the 
need of the Chinese economy to have local software capability and our need for 
an ecosystem of companies around us using our technology and platform."

At the same time, the Chinese government started thinking more like Microsoft: 
It required central, provincial, and local governments to begin using legal 
software. The city of Beijing completed its portion of the project late last 
year and now pays for software its employees - most of whom never adopted Linux 
- had previously pirated. (Microsoft won't say how steep a discount it offered 
the government.)

In another boost for Microsoft, the government last year required local PC 
manufacturers to load legal software on their computers. Lenovo, the market 
leader, had been shipping as few as 10% of its PCs that way, and even U.S. PC 
makers in China were selling many machines "naked." Another mandate requires 
gradual legalization of the millions of computers in state-owned enterprises. 
In all, Gates says, the number of new machines shipped with legal software 
nationwide has risen from about 20% to more than 40% in the past 18 months.

* Win-win?

So did Microsoft conquer China, or is it the other way around? Toward the end 
of Gates' trip, on the sidelines of China's Boao Forum, I sat down again with 
the Microsoft founder. One of the things I wanted to ask him was how he squares 
the company's "alignment" in China with its leaders' suppression of free speech 
on the Internet and what many consider to be their general disregard for human 
rights. Our conversation, which had been flowing freely, ground to a halt. He 
said nothing. His silence lasted so long I found myself piping up out of 
discomfort. "That's a very pregnant pause," I said. "I don't think I want to 
give an answer to that," he finally replied.

Mundie, however, gamely ventured an answer in a separate interview. He started 
by talking about the challenges of transforming a socialist planned economy 
into one based on the market, and noted that never before have leaders anywhere 
attempted such a huge transition. "Whether it's running a global company or a 
government," he says, "people have to sit there and make their own value 
judgments against what they deem to be the greater good all the time. I 
personally have found the Chinese leaders to be fairly thoughtful about these 
things. Each society makes choices to protect the rest of society. There are 
some aspects of that that happen here and in other countries that people would 
prefer didn't happen. But in the grand scheme of things, they're what people 
think is required to keep stability." When I asked him if he had discussed any 
of this with China's leaders, he answered, "No. It's not what they consider to 
be my field of expertise. Nor do I."

This sort of language doesn't impress Sophie Richardson, an Asia expert at 
Human Rights Watch. She is distressed that Microsoft shut down the blog of a 
government critic on its MSN Spaces service in 2005. (Microsoft set up MSN in 
China with a government-owned investment firm.) "We're just not convinced they 
have done all they can to push the Chinese government," says Richardson. "Will 
they say no to initiatives in which they might stand to gain financially but 
which would oblige them to participate in the repression of rights? I may not 
have high expectations of [Chinese search company] Baidu as a defender of free 
speech, but I do of Bill Gates."

Many multinational companies would love to be in Microsoft's shoes. Says Carl 
Bass, CEO of Autodesk (Charts), the $2-billion-a-year design-automation 
company: "To do business in China you have to work closely with government." 
Sean Maloney, who heads marketing at Intel (Charts, Fortune 500), agrees: 
"You can't do too many investments in China that the government doesn't approve 
of. You might as well ask them."

Microsoft's China strategy is clearly paying off. More than 24 million PCs will 
be sold this year, adding to the 120 million already in place. Although the 
company's China revenues average no more than $7 for every PC in use (compared 
with $100 to $200 in developed countries), Gates says those figures will 
eventually converge. "What we have here is not about me, and it's not about 
where President Hu went to dinner or anything like that," he says. "It's an 
institution-to-institution relationship, where we've really found a win-win 
way of doing things together that will generate a substantial part of 
Microsoft's growth in the next decade. I don't know any company in the IT 
industry where things have worked out as well as they have for Microsoft."

And not badly for China either. 

Footnotes: 
[1]  emigre /ˈemɪgreɪ; <i>US</i> ˌemɪˈgreɪ; `ɛməˌˇre/ n (French 法) 
person who has left his own country, usu for political reasons 移居外国的人, 
逃亡者, 流亡者（通常指因政治原因）: He was one of the emigres who left France after 
the French Revolution. 他是法国革命後离开法国的流亡者.

[2]  entree /ˈɒntreɪ; `ɑntre/ n (fml 文)  
1 [U, C] ~ (into sth) right or privilege of admission or entry 
获准进入的权利或特权: Her wealth and reputation gave her (an) entree into 
upper-class circles. 她的财富和声望使她得以进入上层社会.  
2 [C] dish served between the fish and meat courses at a formal dinner 
在正式宴席上, 在鱼和肉两道主菜之间所上的菜: What did you have as an entree? 
在鱼和肉两道主菜之间, 你吃的是什么菜? * [attrib 作定语] an entree dish 
在鱼和肉两道主菜之间的一道菜.

