#title Encryption

加密芯片：DS28E10
开发板：友坚的S5PV210
uboot:utv210-uboot
kernel:utv210-kernel
android:utv210-android2.1
toolchain:arm-2009q3

* DS28E10

** 芯片简介

MAXIM的芯片

1-Wire SHA-1 Authenticator

*** General Description

The DS28E10 combines secure challenge-and-response authentication functionality based on the FIPS 180-3 specified Secured Hash Algorithm (SHA-1) with 224 bits of one-time programmable user EPROM in a single chip. Once written, the memory is automatically write protected. Additionally, each device has its own guaranteed unique 64-bit ROM identification number (ROM ID) that is factory programmed into the chip. Memory writes are performed 4 bytes at a time. A secure and low-cost factory programming service is available to preprogram device data, including the SHA-1 security data components. The device communicates over the single-contact 1-Wire bus. The communication follows the standard 1-Wire proteocol with the ROM ID acting as node address in the case of a multidevice 1-Wire network.

这里面提到的重点是1-wire总线，只有一根线的总线。



** 芯片操作

* 设置开发环境

** 编译u-boot

$tar -jxvf utv210-uboot-v1.0-20100922.tar.bz2

$cd utv210-uboot

$make distclean

$make smdkv210single_config

$make

** 编译kernel

$tar -jxvf utv210-kernel-20100925.tar.bz2

$cd utv210-kernel

$make clean

$cp utv210.config .config

$make

编译最终生成的zImage在arch/arm/boot目录下

** 编译android2.1

$tar xvf utv210-android2.1-v1.0-20100925.tar.bz2

$cd utv210-android2.1

$. ./build/envsetup.sh

$tapas

选择Device

选择debug

输入utv210

选择eng

$mm 开始编译源码

$./make_utv210_yaffs2_image.sh 在当前目录下得到utv210_root.img

* 驱动

** 控制IO口电平变化

** 控制IO口按时序变化

* 应用

** 开始读取芯片序列号

** 显示读取到的序列号
