#title 英美短篇小说

* The Road Not Taken

Robert Frost (1874–1963).  Mountain Interval.  1920.
 
               1. The Road Not Taken
 
 
> TWO roads diverged in a yellow wood,	
> And sorry I could not travel both	
> And be one traveler, long I stood	
> And looked down one as far as I could	
> To where it bent in the undergrowth;	      
 
> Then took the other, as just as fair,	
> And having perhaps the better claim,	
> Because it was grassy and wanted wear;	
> Though as for that the passing there	
> Had worn them really about the same,	        
 
> And both that morning equally lay	
> In leaves no step had trodden black.	
> Oh, I kept the first for another day!	
> Yet knowing how way leads on to way,	
> I doubted if I should ever come back.	       
 
> I shall be telling this with a sigh	
> Somewhere ages and ages hence:	
> Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—	
> I took the one less traveled by,	
> And that has made all the difference.	        
 
* Questions
**  What does literature refer to and what do you think are the values of literature? 
1. Literature refers to a fiction consisting of carefully arranged words designed to stir the imagination.

2. Values of literature
 - Literature provides vicarious escape.
 - Literature offers the reader “knowledge” in the form of information.
 - Literature broadens our perspectives on the world.
 - Literature can be read for the sheer aesthetic pleasure we take in good craftsmanship of any kind. 

** What are the definitions of description and narration?
1. Description represents in words our sensory impressions caught in a moment of time.

2. Narration is an account of what happened. 

** What are the definitions of summary, sequential summary,and circumstantial summary?
1. A summary covers a relatively long period of time in relatively short compass.

2. Sequential summary relates events in their sequence but compresses them.

3. Circumstantial summary describes the general circumstances during a period of time. 


** What are the definitions of scene,story,and plot? 
1. A scene deals with a relatively short period of time at length. 

2. Story is a series of events recorded in their chronological order.

3. Plot is a pattern of carefully selected, causally related events that contains conflicts. 

**  What is the definition of fiction? 
Fiction applies to all works of literature in which the reader sets them apart from the facts of real life. 

** What are the definitions of character, characterization,flat characters,round characters and what are the methods of characteization?
1. Characters are the people in narratives.

2. Characterization is the author's presentation and development of characters.

3. Flat characters have only one or two personality traits and are easily recognized as stereotypes.

4. Round characters have multiple personality traits and therefore resemble real people.

5. One method of characterization is telling, which relies on exposition and direct commentary by the author.

6. The other method of characterization is the indirect, dramatic method of showing, which involves the author's stepping aside, as it were, to allow the characters to reveal themselves directly through their dialogue and their actions. 

** What does setting refer to? 
Setting includes several closely related aspects of a work of fiction: the physical, sensuous world of the work, the time in which the action of the work takes place, and the social environment of the characters.


** What is the definition of point of view? What types of point of view are there? 
1. Point of view is the author's relationship to his or her fictional world, especially to the minds of the characters. Or point of view is the position from which the story is told.

2. The story can be told in the first person, the second person, or the third person (the omniscient author, the limited omniscient author, or the objective author). 


** What is the definiiton of theme? And what is the definition of symbol? 
1. Theme is the central idea in the work. It is the comment the work makes on the human condition.

2. Symbol is something that represents something else. In literature, a symbol is an object that has meaning beyond itself. The object is concrete and the meanings are abstract. 


* Shall I Compare Thee To A Summer's Day?
                   Shall I Compare Thee To A Summer's Day?
                            by William Shakespeare (1564-1616)
 

> Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
> Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
> Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
> And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
> Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
> And often is his gold complexion dimm'd;
> And every fair from fair sometime declines,
> By chance or nature's changing course untrimm'd;
> But thy eternal summer shall not fade
> Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st;
> Nor shall Death brag thou wander'st in his shade,
> When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st:
> So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
> So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
