#title Muster

* What is Muster?
With the increase in multi-core CPUs, taking advantage of available system resources when writing new applications has grown more difficult. It is not impossible to create well-performing systems on the current (and next) generation of hardware, however, the current programming languages are built with the assumption of sequential operation.

Muster is a fundamental change in the approach. Rather than adding mechanisms to ease parallel development in existing languages, Muster assumes that operations in given contexts will implicitly be run in parallel and the developer must explicitly state when they should be run serially. This approach causes the serial algorithms to be much more painful to implement than parallel algorithms. The core idea is to provide an environment where the natural mental model is that of a parallel approach to the problem rather than a serial one.

Muster is designed as a compiler and run-time environment for the JVM.  Initially, all jars, etc. that can be used with other JVM languages will be available within Muster.  This means that existing libraries and features will be available.  However, because of the need for implicit parallelism, exposing the equivalent of a class in Muster to other languages will be complicated.  It is planned to allow full interoperability, but will not be available or specified in the initial release.

** Why a new language?
There are numerous models for parallel and concurrent programming, some even being built into the language itself (such as Erlang's actor model) and some being based around frameworks (Akka, Node.js).  However, these are heavily geared towards handling either service-based applications (not necessarily a good fit for data processing or working with streams and collections) or require the developer to work in a serial mindset over parallel operations.  To work with a fundamentally different mental model, a new language is needed to describe it.

** Why the JVM?
To go from nothing to usable, there is a significant amount of libraries, utilities and fixtures that need to be created.  Rather than recreate all of these in Muster, it makes sense to leverage an existing ecosystem.  Additionally, the portability of JVM bytecode will allow Muster to be available on the most systems the fastest.

** Where can I learn more?
For now, the only resource available is the [[specification][Language Specification]].  The syntax and use of the language is being fully specified before an implementation is written, with the specification as the canonical source of information.  Once completed (and partially at the same time), the [[style][Patterns and Style Guide]] will cover use of the language, including common idioms and what is considered best practice for use of the language.
