#title Java Muse Parser
#author abailly at oqube dot com

* What is Muse ?

[[http://www.mwolson.org/projects/MuseMode.html][Muse]] is an [[http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/][emacs]] mode initially created by John Wiegley. It is an
authoring system that uses a simple wiki-like syntax and allows
publishing to various backends: HTML, Latex, Groff, Bloxsom, RSS,
PDF... Moreover, it offers powerful editing features thanks to its integration with
emacs such as link insertion and navigation from a wide variety of
sources (mail, news, bbdb, bibtex files, other muse files, internet
URIs...). 

Muse has a companion project [[http://www.plannerlove.com/pmwiki/pmwiki.php][Planner]]. Planner uses Muse as its
publishing system and markup syntax and is a wonderful tool for
personal and professional information handling and task management.

We refer the reader to the given sites for more information and
complete documentation of the muse format and the emacs mode usage.

* What is THIS software ?

This software is an attempt at writing a parser and an API for
publishing backends for the muse file format in Java. It is by now
mainly useful for documenting [[http://maven.apache.org][maven 2]] projects and integrates with
maven's site production plugins and engine. More information on this
can be found [[maven-muse][here]]).

While there exists already wiki-like formats for maven (eg. twiki, apt) and a great
publishing tool for muse (eg. emacs !), I wanted to:
  1. **use** muse as my documenting format for maven because I live in
     emacs, I do most of my programming tasks in Java and I'm a great
     supporter of maven. So I *need* emacs support for editing muse  files,
  2. **not use** emacs as a publishing tool because of the induced
     dependencies for potential users (especially in Windows and IT
     companies circles).

So I started this project with the following objectives: 
 1. use all af muse syntax (see the [[muse-parser/muse-syntax-status][status page]] for a current report
    on syntax supported by this parser and compatibility issues)
 2. integrates this parser in the
    [[http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-site-plugin][site plugin]] and the [[http://maven.apache.org/doxia][Doxia]] publishing system
 3. provide a simple command-line tool for publishing XHTML output
 4. provide an extensible API for link resolving, parsing
    customization, tags, dynamic content generation...

* Is it stable and how can I make use of it ?

The stability of this package is asserted by the version number, as
usual. The latest *muse-parser* version is **1.0-rc3**. I follow the
somewhat standard scheme: 
 - versions are numbered =major.minor.patch= with =major= number changes
   indicating API change (which may break compatibility), =minor= number
   increase indicating feature addition or major bug fix and =patch=
   indicating bug fixes
 - version number can have a postfix:
   - =rcXX= (for release candidate) indicates a *beta* release of given
     version with =XX= being an increment for each release
   - =SNAPSHOT= indicates current development version build

Currently, *muse-parser* can be used either as a tool for generating
project's site with [[maven-muse][maven]] or as a  standalone utility for [[muse-parser/muse-standalone][publishing]] a
set of directories in XHTML format. I think it is however a better
startegy to just use the former and use *emacs* mode for the latter. In
all cases, *muse-parser* works best in conjunction with emacs as an
editor providing syntax highlighting, hyperlinks navigation and nice
keyboard shortcuts. 

Of course, this package's documentation is written in *muse* format and
this site is generated with the maven extension !
