#title Monikop (and Pokinom)
#subtitle rsync between unconnected hosts
#author Bert Burgemeister


* Introduction

Suppose you have an isolated network of data producing computers
(Sources), e.g. in a surveying vehicle (Rover). The collected data (a
few terabytes per day) need to be transferred to a processing server
(Destination) in office.

This data transfer, which happens by means of removable disks, is
Monikop's and Pokinom's job.

On Rover, a couple of removable disks are put into a dedicated
computer where they are filled automatically by Monikop with data
pulled from Sources.  At any time, copying data finished or otherwise,
the operator switches Monikop's host off by a keypress and removes the
disks. Data integrity is never compromised by shutting down Monikop's
host or any of the Sources at any time, in any order, by any means
including power cuts.

The disks are then brought to the office where they are put into
another dedicated computer. Here, Monikop's counterpart called Pokinom
pushes their content to Destination, makes the disks re-usable by
Monikop, and switches itself off when finished.

Old data is being left as long as possible on the removable
disks. This may be helpful as part of a backup strategy.

The heavy lifting is done by [[http://www.samba.org/rsync/][Rsync]]. Sources as well as Destination
need to have Rsync installed. Both can be running Linux, Windows, or
any operating system Rsync can be installed on.

You can expect transfer rates of about
 - 30 megabytes per second per Source running Windows,
 - 50 megabytes per second per Source running Linux.


