#title Monikop (and Pokinom)
#subtitle rsync between unconnected hosts
#author Bert Burgemeister



* Installation

We assume Debian GNU/Linux here, but any distribution should
work. Adapt installation instructions accordingly.

Debian Packages needed:

 - to run Monikop (on Rover) or Pokinom (in office): 
   rsync, mingetty, sudo, libcurses-perl, libfile-rsync-perl;

 - to install from a git repository: git-core;

 - to run the tests: bc, time.

 - Both Monikop and Pokinom run on text console; you don't need
   anything like Gnome, KDE or even X.


** Prepare Removable Disks

Put sticker labels with disk names on your removable disks.

*** File Systems

Create labelled file systems on the removable disks. Example
(suppose a removable disk with a sticker label "=disk_10=" on its case is attached to =/dev/sdg1=): 

=# mke2fs -j -L disk_10 /dev/sdg1=

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, label the system root
partition. If it were on =/dev/sda1/, that's e.g.=:

=# e2label /dev/sda1 root=

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, label the swap partition. If it
happens to be on /dev/sda5, e.g.: 

=# swapoff=

=# mkswap -L swap /dev/sda5=

=# swapon=
 
*** Mount Points

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, create mount points, one for
each removable disk: 

=# mkdir -p /media/disk_{01,02,03,04...}=

=# chmod a+rx /media/disk_{01,02,03,04...}=

#fstab
In =/etc/fstab= on both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, make use of the disk labels:

<src lang="conf">
## System partitions ###
LABEL=root     /               ext3  defaults,errors=remount-ro 0  1
LABEL=swap     none            swap  sw                         0  0
## Removable disks                   
LABEL=disk_01  /media/disk_01  ext3  rw,user,auto               0  0
LABEL=disk_02  /media/disk_02  ext3  rw,user,auto               0  0
LABEL=disk_03  /media/disk_03  ext3  rw,user,auto               0  0
LABEL=disk_04  /media/disk_04  ext3  rw,user,auto               0  0
# etc.
</src>

Put each removable disk in and make it writable; e.g.:

=# mount /media/disk_01=

=# chmod a+rwx /media/disk_01=
 
*** Maintain Bootability

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, make sure the operating system boots
actually from its system disk rather than from some of the removable
ones. Change =/boot/grub/menu.lst= where it says <code># kopt=root=...</code>:

<src lang="conf">
### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=/dev/disk/by-label/root noresume ro
</src>
 
and call
 
=# update-grub=


#Configure_Monikop_and_Pokinom
** Configure Monikop and Pokinom

Create a user on both Monikop's and Pokinom's machine. For
description's sake, we assume they're called m-operator.

Inside m-operator's home directory, [[download][get Monikop (and Pokinom)]];
unpack the tarball:

=$ tar -xzf monikop-<version>.tar.gz=

=$ mv monikop-<version> monikop=

=$ cd monikop=.

Copy =monikop.config.example= to =monikop.config= and
=pokinom.config.example= to =pokinom.config, respectively,= and
adapt them according to your needs. Both are perl code, so be careful
and keep the punctuation in place. 

#monikop.config
*** =monikop.config=

<include file="../monikop.config.example" markup="src" lang="perl">

For Monikop, change in [[installation#monikop.config][monikop.config]] at least:

 - =%sources=: Data producing Sources on Rover in one of the formats Rsync
   understands, together with a source-specific directory name where data
   of the respective Source goes. Those directory names can be equal for
   several Sources as long as all filenames in the payload are certain to be
   unique.

 - =@usable_mount_points=: Mount points (directories) you set up [[installation#fstab][earlier]] for your
   removable disks.

   
#pokinom.config

*** =pokinom.config=

<include file="../pokinom.config.example" markup="src" lang="perl">

For Pokinom you should edit in [[installation#pokinom.config][pokinom.config]] at least:

 - =@usable_mount_points= (as with [[installation#monikop.config][monikop.config]])
 - =$destination=: Data destination in one of the formats Rsync
   understands; cf. setup of [[installation#Data_Destination][Data Destination]].
 - =$rsync_username=, =$rsync_password=: credentials of (and only
   known to) the Rsync server;
   cf. setup of [[installation#Data_Destination][Data Destination]]. 


*** Automatic Program Start

Append to
=/home/m-operator/.profile= (create it if necessary):

<src lang="bash">
/home/m-operator/monikop/monikop
</src>

or

<src lang="bash">
/home/m-operator/monikop/pokinom,
</src>

respectively.

If necessary, specify path to config file, e.g.  
<src lang="bash">
/home/m-operator/monikop/monikop /home/m-operator/monikop/monikop.config
</src>


*** Setup Sudo

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host authorise m-operator to shut down computer.
Use =visudo= to change =/etc/sudoers=; add:

<src lang="conf">
m-operator ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /sbin/halt -p
m-operator ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /sbin/reboot
</src>


*** Automatic Login

On both Monikop's and Pokinom's host, change the line in
=/etc/inittab= that looks like

<src lang="conf">
1:2345:respawn:/sbin/getty 38400 tty1
</src>

into

<src lang="conf">
1:2345:respawn:/sbin/mingetty --autologin m-operator --noclear tty1
</src>


#Configure_Rsync_on_Sources
** Configure Rsync on Sources

Install package rsync.

Example for =/etc/rsyncd.conf=:

<src lang="conf">
pid file=/var/run/rsyncd.pid
[data]
    path = /mnt/hdd_0
    use chroot = false
    lock file = /var/lock/rsyncd
    read only = yes
    list = yes
    transfer logging = false
</src>

In =/etc/default/rsync=, change the line

<src lang="conf">
RSYNC_ENABLE = false
</src>

to

<src lang="conf">
RSYNC_ENABLE = true
</src>

Start rsync server:

=# /etc/initd/rsync start=

or reboot.


On Windows, install
[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/sereds/files/cwRsync/4.0.3/cwRsyncServer_4.0.3_Installer.zip/download][cwRsync]]. Click
Start, Programs, cwRsyncServer, rsyncd.conf; edit:

<src lang="conf">
use chroot = false
strict modes = false
hosts allow = *
logfile = rsyncd.log
[data]
#   /cygdrive/e/log stands for E:\log
    path = /cygdrive/e/log
    read only = false
    transfer logging = false
</src>

Configure service RsyncServer: right-click My Computer; click Manage, Services
and Applications, Services, RsyncServer; set Startup Type to Automatic.


#Network_Setup
** Network Setup

Depending on the amount of data to transfer, consider putting a
dedicated NIC for each Source into Monikop's machine.  In this case,
you should provide for non-overlapping subnets. [[http://jodies.de/ipcalc][IP-Calculator]] may be
helpful.


*** Monikop

**** Name the Sources

#etc_hosts
Example for =/etc/hosts=:

<src lang="conf">
127.0.0.1      localhost
192.168.200.10 data-producer1
192.168.200.20 data-producer2
192.168.200.30 data-producer3
192.168.200.50 data-producer4
192.168.178.1  monikop
</src>


**** Configure NICs

Example for =/etc/network/interfaces=:
<src lang="conf">
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# Net of smaller Sources
allow-hotplug eth1
iface eth1 inet static
   address 192.168.178.1
   netmask 255.255.255.0

# Dedicated NIC for data-producer1
allow-hotplug eth2
iface eth2 inet static
   address 192.168.200.9
   netmask 255.255.255.248

# Dedicated NIC for data_producer2
allow-hotplug eth3
iface eth3 inet static
   address 192.168.200.19
   netmask 255.255.255.248

# Dedicated NIC for data_producer3
allow-hotplug eth4
iface eth4 inet static
   address 192.168.200.29
   netmask 255.255.255.248

# Dedicated NIC for data_producer4
allow-hotplug eth5
iface eth5 inet static
   address 192.168.200.49
   netmask 255.255.255.248
</src>


*** Data Sources

Use [[installation#etc_hosts][/etc/hosts]] as with Monikop. For Windows, it's =%SystemRoot%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts=.


**** Source's NIC

Example for =/etc/network/interfaces=:

<src lang="conf">
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# service (not relevant for Monikop)
allow-hotplug eth0
iface eth0 inet static
   address 192.168.178.2
   netmask 255.255.255.0

# Monikop's dedicated NIC
allow-hotplug eth1
iface eth1 inet static
   address 192.168.200.10
   netmask 255.255.255.248
</src>

For Windows, configure your network settings accordingly.


*** Pokinom

Pokinom's network settings don't need any special treatment. Just
integrate it into the office LAN Destination is connected to.


#Data_Destination
** Data Destination

*** Rsync Server on Destination

Install package rsync.

Adapt =/etc/rsyncd.conf=, e.g.:

<src lang="conf">
gid = data_receiving_group
use chroot = yes
max connections = 0
pid file = /var/run/rsyncd.pid

[incoming]
        path = /mnt/./raid_0
        list = no
        comment = Pokinom only; requires authentication
        read only = no
        incoming chmod = g+r,g+w,g+x
        write only = yes
        # Pokinom's IP:
        hosts allow = 192.168.180.120
        auth users = m-operator
        secrets file = /etc/rsyncd.secrets
</src>

=/etc/rsyncd.secrets= contains Rsync's credentials which must
correspond to settings =$rsync_passwd= and =$rsync_username= in [[installation#pokinom.config][pokinom.config]]:

<src lang="conf">
m-operator:sEcReT
</src>

=/etc/rsyncd.secrets= must not be world-readable.

In =/etc/default/rsync=, change the line

<src lang="conf">
RSYNC_ENABLE = false
</src>

to

<src lang="conf">
RSYNC_ENABLE = true
</src>

Start rsync server:

=# /etc/initd/rsync start=

or reboot.

With the above, rsync puts the payload it receives into
=/mnt/raid_0/NEW_DATA/=. ("=NEW_DATA=" was set with
=$destination= in [[installation#pokinom.config][pokinom.config]].)

=NEW_DATA/= and everything inside belongs to user
nobody and group data_receiving_group.

If on Destination you can't do without Windows, install 
[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/sereds/files/cwRsync/4.0.3/cwRsyncServer_4.0.3_Installer.zip/download][cwRsync]],
configure its =rsyncd.conf= accordingly, and set service rsync to
automatic start.

; TODO: net topology for Monikop, for Pokinom

