#title On The Java Road

* foreword

它不是我最喜欢的语言，却是我使用得最多的，至少目前是这样。或许其中也有
Java 那些名字都老长老长的缘故，哈哈。想像一下吧，=try catch= 要捕获的
那些异常的名字，已定义的常量的名字。如果你要让捕获更加小心翼翼更加合乎
逻辑，如果你没在用 Eclipse 或者 Netbeans 的话我觉得最好还是放弃。不过
如果 Vim、Emacs 配置的好，自然不用理会我的想法。

本页的标题抄袭自 James Gosling 的博客。暂时只有这些内容，以后添加。

* In Collaboration With XML
** Some info about XML
XML stands for eXtensible Markuo Language which is NOT a  replacement
for HTML. There are 5 predefined entity references in XML. NOTE: Only
the characters "<" and "&" are strictly illegal in XML. The greater
than character is legal, but it is a good habit to replace it. 

&lt; ||	 <  ||	less than
&gt; |	 >  |	greater than
&amp; |  &  |	ampersand 
&apos; |  '  |	apostrophe
&quot; |||  "  ||| quotation mark

HTML reduces multiple white space characters to a single white
space. With XML, the white space in your document is not truncated. 

In Windows applications, a new line is normally stored as a pair of
characters: carriage return (CR) and line feed (LF). The character
pair bears some resemblance to the typewriter actions of setting a new
line. In Unix applications, a new line is normally stored as a LF
character. Macintosh applications use only a CR character to store a
new line. 

* Net
** Proxies and Firewalls

If you are behind a firewall, you need to tell Java the details of
your proxy server and its port number in order to access hosts outside
the firewall. You do this by defining the applicable HTTP or FTP
properties: 

 - http.proxyHost (default: <none>)
 - http.proxyPort (default: 80 if http.proxyHost specified)
 - http.nonProxyHosts (default: <none>)

The http.proxyHost and http.proxyPort indicate the proxy server and
port that the HTTP protocol handler will use. The http.nonProxyHosts
can be set to specify the hosts which should be connected to directly
(not through the proxy server). The value of the http.nonProxyHosts
property can be a list of hosts, each separated by a |; it can also
take a regular expression for matches; for example: *.sfbay.sun.com
would match any fully qualified hostname in the sfbay domain. 

 - ftp.proxyHost (default: <none>)
 - ftp.proxyPort (default: 80 if ftp.proxyHost specified)
 - ftp.nonProxyHosts (default: <none>)

The ftp.proxyHost and ftp.proxyPort indicate the proxy server and port
that the FTP protocol handler will use. The ftp.nonProxyHosts is
similar to http.nonProxyHosts and indicates the hosts that should be
connected to directly and not through the proxy server. 

You can set these properties when you start your application:

 - Prompt> java -Dhttp.proxyHost=HostName -Dhttp.proxyPort=PortNumber yourApp 

[[http://www.rgagnon.com/javadetails/java-0085.html][more]]

** JSP related
*** CLASSPATH
有许多选择，把相应的 jar 丢到 [your app]/WEN-INF/lib/ 下面，或者编译的
时候指定：
<example>
javac -classpath ".;C:\Program Files\Tomcat 5.5\common\lib\servlet-api.jar;" leto/servlet/foo.java
</example>

*** WARN: [Parameters] Parameters: Invalid chunk ignored. 
When interacting with the application, such as
facelets-component-showcase on JBoss 4.2, the following will be
displayed in the server log: 

=WARN: [Parameters] Parameters: Invalid chunk ignored.=

This is due to a parameter with no name -- the string "&=" appearing
in the form-encoded data. It is not clear which parameter is being
encoded in this way.  

*** native2ascii
According to the [[http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/tooldocs/windows/native2ascii.html][official doc]], the default encoding is taken from
System property file.encoding. So when you try to convert a
non-english file (say, GBK, BIG-5...), you should use the -encoding
option to sepecify the exact [[http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/guide/intl/encoding.doc.html][encoding]] of the original file.

*** struts 2
**** a configuration sample
<src type="xml">
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<web-app version="2.4" xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/j2ee"
	 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	 xsi:schemaLocation="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/j2ee">
  <display-name>S2 Example Application - Chapter 1 - Hello World
  </display-name>
  <filter>
    <filter-name>struts2</filter-name>
    <filter-class>org.apache.struts2.dispatcher.FilterDispatcher
    </filter-class>
    <init-param>
      <param-name>actionPackages</param-name>
      <param-value>manning</param-value>
    </init-param>
  </filter>
  <filter-mapping>
    <filter-name>struts2</filter-name>
    <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  </filter-mapping>
  <servlet>
    <servlet-name>anotherServlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>manning.servlet.AnotherServlet</servlet-class>
  </servlet>
  <servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>anotherServlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>/anotherServlet</url-pattern>
  </servlet-mapping>
  <welcome-file-list>
    <welcome-file>index.html</welcome-file>
  </welcome-file-list>
</web-app>
</src>
