#title MySQL | PostgreSQL

* MySQL
* PostgreSQL
** Intalling PostgreSQL
*** On debian derivative
我自己现在用的发行版是 ubuntu，然而潜意识下还是把自己当 debian 用户。
安装方式自然使用 apt，外网有 [[http://www.supriyadisw.net/2006/06/installing-postgresql-on-debian][一篇入门文章]] 还不错。在常规的几个包之外推
荐安装 =postgresql-docs= 这个包，文档很详细，到时候在
=/usr/share/doc/postgresql/html/= 这里就找到了。有个东西要提醒的就是，第
一次执行 createdb[1] 的时候可能会遭遇到错误，
<example>
nil@ubuntu:~$ createdb haha
createdb: could not connect to database postgres: FATAL:  role "nil" does not exist
</example>
在文档中也有描述。因为 debian 的包装好之后创建的用户是 postgres，遇到
上述错误后有两个选择：su 到 postgres 用户再进行操作，此其一；把自己的
用户名添加进 postgresql 支持的用户列表里面去。后者可以参考文档，前者在
su 之前请记得先给 postgres 用户设置密码。

*** Managing Roles

上面并没有讲清楚，事实上角色(role)并非就是系统中的用户，于系统的用户和组没
有直接联系，需要管理角色的话可以参考用户手册第十八章。
<quote>
As an explanation for why this works: PostgreSQL user names are
separate from operating system user accounts. When you connect to a
database, you can choose what PostgreSQL user name to connect as; if
you don't, it will default to the same name as your current operating
system account. As it happens, there will always be a PostgreSQL user
account that has the same name as the operating system user that
started the server, and it also happens that that user always has
permission to create databases. Instead of logging in as that user you
can also specify the -U option everywhere to select a PostgreSQL user
name to connect as. 
</quote>

不过时刻区分角色与用户感觉不是很有必要，下面我就不区分了，不过会引起混
淆的时候我会说明的。切换到 postgres 用户下执行如下命令即可：
<example>
# su postgres
# createdb mydb
# createuser foo -P 
# exit
# psql mydb			; if you're logged on as foo
</example>
创建用户的时候会让你简单选择用户的一些选项，比如是否超级用户之类。
还可以通过修改配置文件来得到系统用户登录的效果，我并没有尝试，具体做法
参考上面那个连接。

* Learning SQL

** Just A Few Notes
*** Joins Between Tables
 - inner join
 - outer join
<example>
SELECT * FROM weather, cities WHERE city = name;
SELECT weather.city, weather.temp_lo, weather.temp_hi,
       weather.prcp, weather.date, cities.location
    FROM weather, cities
    WHERE cities.name = weather.city;
SELECT *
    FROM weather INNER JOIN cities ON (weather.city = cities.name);
SELECT *
    FROM weather LEFT OUTER JOIN cities ON (weather.city = cities.name);
SELECT W1.city, W1.temp_lo AS low, W1.temp_hi AS high,
    W2.city, W2.temp_lo AS low, W2.temp_hi AS high
    FROM weather W1, weather W2
    WHERE W1.temp_lo < W2.temp_lo
    AND W1.temp_hi > W2.temp_hi;
SELECT *
    FROM weather w, cities c
    WHERE w.city = c.name;
</example>
*** Aggregate Functions
<example>
SELECT city FROM weather WHERE temp_lo = max(temp_lo);     WRONG
</example>
<quote>
 but this will not work since the aggregate max cannot be used in the
WHERE clause. (This restriction exists because the WHERE clause
determines which rows will be included in the aggregate calculation;
so obviously it has to be evaluated before aggregate functions are
computed.) However, as is often the case the query can be restated to
accomplish the desired result, here by using a subquery: 
</quote>
<example>
SELECT city FROM weather
    WHERE temp_lo = (SELECT max(temp_lo) FROM weather);

     city
---------------
 San Francisco
(1 row)
</example>

The LIKE operator does pattern matching

*** Views
<quote>
Suppose the combined listing of weather records and city location is
of particular interest to your application, but you do not want to
type the query each time you need it. You can create a view over the
query, which gives a name to the query that you can refer to like an
ordinary table. 
</quote>
<example>
CREATE VIEW myview AS
    SELECT city, temp_lo, temp_hi, prcp, date, location
        FROM weather, cities
        WHERE city = name;

SELECT * FROM myview;
</example>

Footnotes: 
[1]  如果后面不加参数，那么一般的默认情况是给你创建与你的用户名相同的
     数据库。

*** Transactions
PostgreSQL actually treats every SQL statement as being executed
within a transaction. If you do not issue a BEGIN  command, then each
individual statement has an implicit BEGIN and (if successful) COMMIT
wrapped around it. A group of statements surrounded by BEGIN and
COMMIT  is sometimes called a transaction block. If, partway through
the transaction, we decide we do not want to commit (perhaps we just
noticed that Alice's balance went negative), we can issue the command
ROLLBACK instead of COMMIT, and all our updates so far will be
canceled. 

It's possible to control the statements in a transaction in a more
granular fashion through the use of savepoints. Savepoints allow you
to selectively discard parts of the transaction, while committing the
rest. After defining a savepoint with SAVEPOINT, you can if needed
roll back to the savepoint with ROLLBACK TO. All the transaction's
database changes between defining the savepoint and rolling back to it
are discarded, but changes earlier than the savepoint are kept. 

After rolling back to a savepoint, it continues to be defined, so you
can roll back to it several times. Conversely, if you are sure you
won't need to roll back to a particular savepoint again, it can be
released, so the system can free some resources. Keep in mind that
either releasing or rolling back to a savepoint will automatically
release all savepoints that were defined after it.  

 - BEGIN & COMMIT
 - ROLLBACK (TO)
 - SAVEPOINT

<example>
BEGIN;
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 100.00
    WHERE name = 'Alice';
SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 100.00
    WHERE name = 'Bob';
-- oops ... forget that and use Wally's account
ROLLBACK TO my_savepoint;
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 100.00
    WHERE name = 'Wally';
COMMIT;
</example>

*** Inheritance
<example>
CREATE TABLE cities (
  name       text,
  population real,
  altitude   int     -- (in ft)
);

CREATE TABLE capitals (
  state      char(2)
) INHERITS (cities);

SELECT name, altitude
    FROM ONLY cities		-- (to run over capitals)
    WHERE altitude > 500;
</example>
