#title Test Driven-Development and Code Coverage
#author Arnaud Bailly

*Test Driven Development* or TDD for short is one of the core practices
of *eXtreme Programming* (see [[../services/agile/xp-explained.muse][Notes on 'XP Explained']]). TDD can be
defined using the mantra **Test, Code, Refactor**: 
 1. *Write one test* that expresses what the code should do and through
    which structure it should do that,
 2. *Run for failure* ensures that the recently added test fails,
 3. *Code minimal solution* that makes the written test pass (while not
    breaking existing tests),
 4. *Run for success* ensures that test and code fit one another,
 5. *Refactor* tests and code so that redundant code, constants,
    initialization and structures should be factored into more general
    and/or more simpler solution,
 6. *Run to success* ensures that refactoring does not break code and
    test base.

One question that may be asked is:
   *How does one use code coverage information in a TDD process ?*

a corollary question being: 
   *Is code coverage useful when one does TDD ?*

Indeed, following TDD normally yield 100% coverage as the code is
written to fit as perfectly and minimally as possible the given
test. Of course, it all depends on what one means with *coverage*, as
there exists a whole zoo of test coverage criteria. In our setting, 
coverage means *structural coverage*: the amount of code that is
exercized by the test suite, but that still leaves a fair amount of
measurements to chose from. To stay close to common practices in the
field, we will use standard *line* and *branch* coverage, measures which
are given by most commonly used coverage tools. 

We start by using the classical and somewhat worn example of the 
**triangles**, whose specifications are thus given:
 - **input**: three numbers that are supposed to denote the length of the
   sides of a (non degenerate) triangle,
 - **output**: the type of the triangle, one of equilateral, isoceles, rectangle,
   scalene or error.

Following [[../services/testing/ootest.muse][R.Binder]], we adapt this example to an object-oriented
setting: 
 - the inputs are the three arguments to the constructor of a =Triangle= class,
 - the outputs are the (boolean) result of instance methods from the
   =Triangle= class (ie. an instance of =Triangle= is rectangle if the
   method =isRectangle()= returns =true=),
 - an exception is thrown upon construction of the object in case of
   error.

* First rounds

Let's start doing TDD with our first simple test case. Just to start
somewhere, we begin by testing the equilateral nature of triangles. 

<source name="oqube/tdd/Triangle1Test.java">
import org.junit.Test;

public class Triangle1Test { 

  @Test void testIsEquilateral() { 
      Triangle1 t = new Triangle1(3,3,3);
      assert t.isEquilateral();
  }
}
</source>

A minimal implementation satisfying this test is then:

<source name="oqube/tdd/Triangle1.java">
public class Triangle1 { 
  public Triangle1(int a, int b, int c){}
  public boolean isEquilateral(){ return true;}  
}
</source>

When run, the test obviously passes ! We can then enrich our test set
with a *negative* test, ensuring that our code base can discriminate
equilateral triangles:

<source name="oqube/tdd/Triangle2Test.java">
import org.junit.Test;

public class Triangle2Test { 

  @Test void testIsEquilateral() { 
      Triangle2 t = new Triangle2(3,3,3);
      assert t.isEquilateral();
  }

  @Test void testIsEquilateral() { 
      Triangle2 t = new Triangle2(3,3,2);
      assert !t.isEquilateral();
  }
}
</source>

Running these two tests without touching code yields one pass and one
fail. We then make a giant conceptual leap in our new implementation by:
 - storing the side of the triangle in attributes,
 - computing the equilateral status of our triangle by asserting that
   the three sides are indeed equal.

<source name="oqube/tdd/Triangle2.java">
public class Triangle2 { 
  private int a,b,c;
  public Triangle2(int a, int b, int c){
     this.a = a;
     this.b = b;
     this.c = c;
  }
  public boolean isEquilateral(){ 
    return a == b && b == b;
  }  
}
</source>

The new test suite then passes both tests and we are happy and
confident that our code is indeed correct as tests tell us so.

* Enters coverage

The alert reader may have noticed quite easily that we made an error in the
implementation of the equilateral method: <code>b==b</code> should
read <code>b == c</code>. Yet our test suite passes and in a less
contrived setting an unwary developer may thus let slip in some
subtle errors that may co unnoticed until production release. 

We need more feedback from the testing process such that errors like
these should no be left lurking, and this feedback is given by code
coverage information. 