'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 by the FundsXpress, INC. All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Export of this software from the United States of America may require a specific license from the United States Government. It is the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to obtain such a license before exporting. WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of FundsXpress. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. FundsXpress makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.TH kvno 1 "2011 年 11 月 29 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
kvno \- Kerberos 主体の鍵バージョン番号の出力
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBkvno\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR] 
     [\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR] \fIprinc_host\fR [\fIprinc_host\fR ...]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBkvno\fR は指定された Kerberos 主体のサービスチケットを取得し、それぞれの鍵バージョン番号を出力します。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
サポートしているオプションは、次のとおりです。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIccache\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
使用する資格キャッシュの名前を指定します (デフォルト値でない場合)。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIetype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
コマンド行で指定されたすべてのサービスのセッション鍵に対して要求される \fIenctype\fR を指定します。
.sp
これは、特定の下位互換の状況で役立ちます。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
使用法の説明を出力し、終了します。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
\fIprinc_host\fR 引数を、制約された委譲を使用して資格が取得されるサービスとして扱うことを指定します。 
.sp
このオプションは、プロトコル遷移と組み合わせて使用された場合にのみ有効です。 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
出力を抑止します。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
\fBkrb5_sname_to_principal()\fR を主体名の構築に使用することを指定します。このフラグが指定されている場合は、\fIprinc_host\fR 引数が (主体名ではなく) ホスト名として解釈され、\fIsname\fR がサービス名として解釈されます。 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-U\fR \fIfor_user\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
\fBfor_user\fR の代わりにチケットを取得するためにプロトコル遷移 (\fBS4U2Self\fR) を使用することを指定します。 
.sp
制約された委譲が要求されない場合は、サービス名が資格キャッシュのクライアント主体に一致している必要があります。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドを指定できます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprinc_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fB-S\fR オプションが指定されている場合は、鍵バージョン番号を取得するターゲットの主体の主体名またはホスト名のどちらかを指定します。
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBkvno\fR の実行に影響を与える環境変数 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR については、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBKRB5CCNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
資格 (チケット) のキャッシュの場所。
.RE

.SH ファイル
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/krb5cc_[\fIuid\fR]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
資格キャッシュのデフォルトの場所。\fIuid\fR は、ユーザーの 10 進数の UID です。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、マニュアルページの \fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件service/security/kerberos-5 
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBkdestroy\fR(1), \fBkinit\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBkrb5envvar\fR(5)
