'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH mesg 1 "1997 年 10 月 31 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
mesg \- メッセージの許可または拒否
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBmesg\fR [\fB-n\fR | \fB-y\fR | n | y]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBmesg\fR ユーティリティーは、ほかのユーザーが \fBwrite\fR(1)、\fBtalk\fR(1)、またはその他のユーティリティーを使用してメッセージを端末デバイスに送信することを許可されるかどうかを制御します。影響を受ける端末デバイスは、それぞれ、標準入力、標準出力、および標準エラーに関連付けられた一連のデバイス内の最初の端末を検索することによって決定されます。引数なしの場合、\fBmesg\fR は現在の状態を、変更することなく報告します。適切な特権を持つプロセスは、現在の状態には関係なく、端末にメッセージを送信できる可能性があります。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
サポートしているオプションは、次のとおりです。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR|\fBn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
端末にメッセージを送信するアクセス権をほかのユーザーに対して拒否します。\fBwrite\fR(1) を参照してください。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR|\fBy\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
端末にメッセージを送信するアクセス権をほかのユーザーに対して許可します。
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBmesg\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了ステータスが返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
メッセージが受信可能な場合。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
メッセージが受信可能でない場合。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラー発生時。
.RE

.SH ファイル
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/tty*\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
端末デバイス
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/pts/*\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
端末デバイス
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、マニュアルページの \fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBtalk\fR(1), \fBwrite\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
